H : 18301 And Epitaph , or funeral inscription , upon the godly life and death of the Right worshipful Master William Lambe Esquire , Founder of the new Conduit in Hol - born , etc Deceased the one and twentith of April , and intumbed in S. Faiths Church under Powles , the sixt of Maie next and immediately following . Anno. 1580. Devised by Abraham Fleming . ALl flesh is grass , the * Scripture says , and vadeth like a flower , And nothing to be permanent , can vaunt it hath the pour . The fairest and the foulest thing , that any man can name , Hath but a time to live and die , in honour or in shame . No articificiall workmanship , no notable devise , No valiant act , no noble deed , no puissant enterprise , But as in time triumphantly , it challengeth renown , Even so in time from honours hight , at last it tumbleth down . The doubtful state of mortal man , and argument may be , That nothing is perpetual , which glancing eye doth see , But transitory , frail , and vain , as time demands his fee . The Sun & Moon * shall have their change , though gloriously they shine , The glistering Stars in firmament , from brightness shall decline , The scattered clouds , like winding worm , or scorched parchment scroll , Shall shrink together , as in skies they are constrained to roll . Then , sith celestial creatures state , so alterable is , That vain we count each earthly thing , I judge it not amiss . We see the seasons of the year , successively ensue , First nipping Winter's blustering blasts , with frosts as stiff as glue , Then pleasant Spring with colours clad , of yellow , green , and blue : Next which comes ripening Summer in , and then does follow fast , Quick Harvest for the husbandman , t'acquite his charges past , No time hath this prerogative , for evermore to last . Lo thus in circle runs the year , with compass round about , And his appointed age the world , by portions weareth out . Count what we can most excellent , needs must it have and end , Against decay there is no force , nor fortress to defend . How * many Cities stately built , of timber , lime and stone , Are come to nought , and in their place a desert left alone ? Pomp makes not perpetual , although it bear a port , A Maigame I may name it well , a pastime and a sport , Whose glory glides and slips away , whose pleasure is but short . Like Players in and Interlude , upon a common stage , One representing lusty youth , another crooked age , One royal Principality , another Courtly state , One like a Judge does fit on bench , another begs at gate , Thus counterfeit they all degrees , until the play be done : Even so is man upon the earth , since first his stock begun . For Adam , though he lived long , yet dead he was at last , The Patriarchs and Prophets old , their pilgrimage have pas Kings have resigned up their crowns , and titles of their thrones , And many a politic Governor in grave hath laid his bones , This prove the * sundry writings set , on their Sepulchre stones . The wisdom of the wise is vain , the strong men strength a toy , If they by them as instruments , seek length of life t'enjoy : And as for wealth , it is but wind , for riches have no hold , * Esaie . 40,6 . Eccl. 14.17.18 1. Pet. 1.24 . James . 1.10 . and in many places more , this with the like compari - sons are usu - all . * And allusion to the consume - mansion of this world , when all things shall pass away & vanish . * The like speech is in Tullies Epistles familiar , writ - ten by Sulpi - cius to Cicero , touching the death of his daughter Tul - liam , wife to Dolabella . * Memorials of their mor - talitie which sometime li - ved in all kind of felicity . The moneyed man must think to die , if once he waxes old . Lo , lo , a present pattern here , all you that list to learn , By viewing of this corpse corrupt , what you shall be discearne . Sometime he was , as others be , a quick and living man , But wounded with the dart of death , revive him nothing can . His youthful years , as others have , this good Esquire hath had , And crooked age by creeping on , with weakness sick and sad , In winding sheet at head and foot , fast knit his corpse hath clad . Rich in his life , * poor at his death , a steward of the Lords , His talon Christianly laid out , with Gods good will accords . And as in th'Actes , Cornelius deeds , bear witness of his faith , ( For outward works before the world , belief within bewraith : ) So this religious Gentleman , a Patron to the poor , In allies and in lanes abroad , at home in th'entrie door , In open street , in holy Church , in many a corners crook , ( Where , for the poor and impotent , whom kith and kin forsook , With charitable zeal inflamed , this lowly Lamb did look , ) His alms he hath distributed , and given as he saw need , Cloth for the back , meat for the mouth , the hungry soul to feed . As loving as a Lamb he lived , and verifide his name , He was and eye unto the blind , a leg unto the lame , A comfort to the comfortless , a succour to the sick , A father to the fatherless , whom nipping need did prick , A husband to the desolate , and widow left alone , A favourer and a friend to all , and enemy to none . Now * such as had his wool to wear , lament of him the lack , His flesh did fill their bellies full , his fleece kept warm their back , His pence and pounds preserved them , from many a wringing wrack . No miss of mercy was in him , for jointly heart and hand , Were pliant to supply the wants , of many in this land . For this he knew , by giving them , he lent unto the Lord : His humbleness no homeliness , of sickly soul abhorred . So that I may conclude of him , as needs conclude I must , If works may simply of themselves , make righteous men and just , ( Which I deny , for unto faith this office is assigned : ) Then is he sanctifide from sin , and cleansd in heart and mind . The fruits of faith which flourished , in him while he did live , His diverse distributions , and gifts which he did give , The monuments which he hath left , behind him being dead , Are signs that * Christ our Shepherd hath , unto his sheepfold led , This loving Lamb , who like a Lamb died meekly in his bed : His body buried in the ground , there to consume to dust , His soul in Abrahams bosom rests , in quietness I trus A place allotted unto Lambs , there to possess in peace , Such blessings as this Lamb enjoys , whose like the Lord increase , For Jesus sake the spotless Lamb . And here my pen shall cease . * For I have herd it credit - dibly repor - ted , that he left little or nothing undi - stributed . * Poor peo - ple shall soon feel the loss of this Lamb by the lack of their relief . * For Christ will repay thee a thousand fold , which is gi - ven to the suc - courles . As Evening shadow slides , And Seas do vary tides , So all the pranking prides , Of worldly glory glides : Gods word , the guide of guides , For evermore abides . Imprinted at London by Henrie Denham , for Thomas Turner , and are to be sold at his shop at Guild-hall gate . H : 18301 And Epitaph , or funeral inscription , upon the godly life and death of the Right worshipful Master William Lambe Esquire , Founder of the new Conduit in Hol - born , etc Deceased the one and twentith of April , and intumbed in S. Faiths Church under Powles , the sixt of Maie next and immediately following . Anno. 1580. Devised by Abraham Fleming . ALl flesh is grass , the * Scripture says , and vadeth like a flower , And nothing to be permanent , can vaunt it hath the pour . The fairest and the foulest thing , that any man can name , Hath but a time to live and die , in honour or in shame . No articificiall workmanship , no notable devise , No valiant act , no noble deed , no puissant enterprise , But as in time triumphantly , it challengeth renown , Even so in time from honours hight , at last it tumbleth down . The doubtful state of mortal man , and argument may be , That nothing is perpetual , which glancing eye doth see , But transitory , frail , and vain , as time demands his fee . The Sun & Moon * shall have their change , though gloriously they shine , The glistering Stars in firmament , from brightness shall decline , The scattered clouds , like winding worm , or scorched parchment scroll , Shall shrink together , as in skies they are constrained to roll . Then , sith celestial creatures state , so alterable is , That vain we count each earthly thing , I judge it not amiss . We see the seasons of the year , successively ensue , First nipping Winter's blustering blasts , with frosts as stiff as glue , Then pleasant Spring with colours clad , of yellow , green , and blue : Next which comes ripening Summer in , and then does follow fast , Quick Harvest for the husbandman , t'acquite his charges past , No time hath this prerogative , for evermore to last . Lo thus in circle runs the year , with compass round about , And his appointed age the world , by portions weareth out . Count what we can most excellent , needs must it have and end , Against decay there is no force , nor fortress to defend . How * many Cities stately built , of timber , lime and stone , Are come to nought , and in their place a desert left alone ? Pomp makes not perpetual , although it bear a port , A Maigame I may name it well , a pastime and a sport , Whose glory glides and slips away , whose pleasure is but short . Like Players in and Interlude , upon a common stage , One representing lusty youth , another crooked age , One royal Principality , another Courtly state , One like a Judge does fit on bench , another begs at gate , Thus counterfeit they all degrees , until the play be done : Even so is man upon the earth , since first his stock begun . For Adam , though he lived long , yet dead he was at last , The Patriarchs and Prophets old , their pilgrimage have pas Kings have resigned up their crowns , and titles of their thrones , And many a politic Governor in grave hath laid his bones , This prove the * sundry writings set , on their Sepulchre stones . The wisdom of the wise is vain , the strong men strength a toy , If they by them as instruments , seek length of life t'enjoy : And as for wealth , it is but wind , for riches have no hold , * Esaie . 40,6 . Eccl. 14.17.18 1. Pet. 1.24 . James . 1.10 . and in many places more , this with the like compari - sons are usu - all . * And allusion to the consume - mansion of this world , when all things shall pass away & vanish . * The like speech is in Tullies Epistles familiar , writ - ten by Sulpi - cius to Cicero , touching the death of his daughter Tul - liam , wife to Dolabella . * Memorials of their mor - talitie which sometime li - ved in all kind of felicity . The moneyed man must think to die , if once he waxes old . Lo , lo , a present pattern here , all you that list to learn , By viewing of this corpse corrupt , what you shall be discearne . Sometime he was , as others be , a quick and living man , But wounded with the dart of death , revive him nothing can . His youthful years , as others have , this good Esquire hath had , And crooked age by creeping on , with weakness sick and sad , In winding sheet at head and foot , fast knit his corpse hath clad . Rich in his life , * poor at his death , a steward of the Lords , His talon Christianly laid out , with Gods good will accords . And as in th'Actes , Cornelius deeds , bear witness of his faith , ( For outward works before the world , belief within bewraith : ) So this religious Gentleman , a Patron to the poor , In allies and in lanes abroad , at home in th'entrie door , In open street , in holy Church , in many a corners crook , ( Where , for the poor and impotent , whom kith and kin forsook , With charitable zeal inflamed , this lowly Lamb did look , ) His alms he hath distributed , and given as he saw need , Cloth for the back , meat for the mouth , the hungry soul to feed . As loving as a Lamb he lived , and verifide his name , He was and eye unto the blind , a leg unto the lame , A comfort to the comfortless , a succour to the sick , A father to the fatherless , whom nipping need did prick , A husband to the desolate , and widow left alone , A favourer and a friend to all , and enemy to none . Now * such as had his wool to wear , lament of him the lack , His flesh did fill their bellies full , his fleece kept warm their back , His pence and pounds preserved them , from many a wringing wrack . No miss of mercy was in him , for jointly heart and hand , Were pliant to supply the wants , of many in this land . For this he knew , by giving them , he lent unto the Lord : His humbleness no homeliness , of sickly soul abhorred . So that I may conclude of him , as needs conclude I must , If works may simply of themselves , make righteous men and just , ( Which I deny , for unto faith this office is assigned : ) Then is he sanctifide from sin , and cleansd in heart and mind . The fruits of faith which flourished , in him while he did live , His diverse distributions , and gifts which he did give , The monuments which he hath left , behind him being dead , Are signs that * Christ our Shepherd hath , unto his sheepfold led , This loving Lamb , who like a Lamb died meekly in his bed : His body buried in the ground , there to consume to dust , His soul in Abrahams bosom rests , in quietness I trus A place allotted unto Lambs , there to possess in peace , Such blessings as this Lamb enjoys , whose like the Lord increase , For Jesus sake the spotless Lamb . And here my pen shall cease . * For I have herd it credit - dibly repor - ted , that he left little or nothing undi - stributed . * Poor peo - ple shall soon feel the loss of this Lamb by the lack of their relief . * For Christ will repay thee a thousand fold , which is gi - ven to the suc - courles . As Evening shadow slides , And Seas do vary tides , So all the pranking prides , Of worldly glory glides : Gods word , the guide of guides , For evermore abides . Imprinted at London by Henrie Denham , for Thomas Turner , and are to be sold at his shop at Guild-hall gate . 