H : 135785r THE Saint turn'd Courtesan : OR , A New PLOT discover'd by a precious Zealot , of and Assault and Battery design'd upon the Body of a Sanctify'd Sister , etc Who in her Husband's absence , with a Brother Did often use to comfort one another ; Till wide-mouth'd Crop , who is and old Italian , Took his Mare napping , and surpriz'd her Stallion : Who stead of Entertainment from his Mistress , Did meet a Cudgeling not match'd in Histries . To the Tune of the Quakers Ballad : or , All in the Land of Essex . ALL in the Zealous City , Near the Exchange so Royal , In dead of Night Appear'd such a Sprite , Wou'd make a Saint disloyal . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each pious Covenanter , Now alas what hope Of converting the Pope , When a Sister turns a Ranter ? A precious Goosequill Brother , Joyn'd with a Holy Sister , In place of Mate To propagate The Holy Seed , he kiss'd her . Help , etc About the time of Midnight , When th' Saints are Caterwauling , The Youngster came To cherish the Dame , While the Cuckold was a stroleing . Help , etc For while her Factious Gaol-bird , That Type of Reformation , Lay close by the heels , The slippery Eels Lay in close Copulation . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each pious Covenanter , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , If a Sister turns a Ranter ? But as the Devil wou'd have it , The Devil of Lust and Malice , That night he broke Gaol , And boggl'd her Tail ; She wish'd him at the Gallows . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each zealous Covenanter , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , If a Sister turns a Ranter ? For at the usual hour , In comes the Clerk oth' Quorum ; Where to spoil the Plot , The Devil had god Possession long before him . Help , etc My fairest Helen open , Here's thy own loving Paris : Get away from my door , You Son of a whore , For here's th' old Cuckold Harris . Help , etc Then damn the Factious Lubber , To spoil our Recreation : Quoth Harris , what's there ? 'Tis nothing , my Dear , But the Spirit of Revelation . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each zealous Covenanter , Who wou'd credit Ben. Took , Tho' he swore on a Book , That a Saint should turn a Ranter ? Old The Second Part. Old Ben who much suspected 'Twas more then a bore Vision , Began for to peep , And slept Dogsleep , Till he found the Apparition . Help , etc The Covenanting Brother , According to Indenture , With Ink in Pen Came there again Next Night , but could not enter . Help , etc He knocked beneath the window , What can you sleep so soundly ? Open , my Dear : Quoth Ben , are you there ? I'le handle you profoundly . Help , etc In Gown of Wife , and Slippers , While she lay in a slumber , Perplex'd with cares , He crept down Stairs , Arm'd with good Cudgel Lumber . Help , etc Who's there ? quoth watchful Argus : 'Tis I in longing passion , Give me a kiss : Quoth Ben , take this , A Dryden's Salutation . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each zealous Covenanter , What wonder the Atheist L' --------- should turn 'Papist , When a Zealot turns a Ranter ? What means this strangeness , Madam ? I mean to cool your Courage : Take this , you Rogue , I'le send you , Dog , To hunt for other Forage . Help , etc The Wife scar'd in the Buzzle , My Dear , what is the matter ? You're a Whore , quoth he , You are , quoth she , A Villain and a Traitor . Help , etc I'le have thee scourg'd by Baxter , Quoth he , at the next Lecture , For prostrating To any thing Beneath a Lord Protector . Help , etc Quoth she , I'le have thee Quarter'd , Thou Scribbling Factious Felon , For publishing Against the King Sedition and Rebellion . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , All pious Covenanters , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , When a Sister turns a Ranter ? Have I , quoth he , escaped The Pillory and Committal , The Gallows and The Laws oth' Land , To be proclaim'd a Wittal ? Help , etc What will the Bloody Plotters Say of a Holy Brother , When we our selves Lay Traps and Shelves To Counterplot each other ? Help , etc But now for and Expedient , Left they should us bespatter , We'l say the Spark's A Popish Shark , And that will salve the matter . Help , etc We'l say he was a Papist L' ------ had sent to Fire us ; So thou art clear , My dearest Dear , And the Saints will still admire us . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , And each true Covenanter , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , If a Sister turns a Ranter ? FINIS . Printed for the use of the Protestant-Cobler in Pellmell . H : 135785r THE Saint turn'd Courtesan : OR , A New PLOT discover'd by a precious Zealot , of and Assault and Battery design'd upon the Body of a Sanctify'd Sister , etc Who in her Husband's absence , with a Brother Did often use to comfort one another ; Till wide-mouth'd Crop , who is and old Italian , Took his Mare napping , and surpriz'd her Stallion : Who stead of Entertainment from his Mistress , Did meet a Cudgeling not match'd in Histries . To the Tune of the Quakers Ballad : or , All in the Land of Essex . ALL in the Zealous City , Near the Exchange so Royal , In dead of Night Appear'd such a Sprite , Wou'd make a Saint disloyal . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each pious Covenanter , Now alas what hope Of converting the Pope , When a Sister turns a Ranter ? A precious Goosequill Brother , Joyn'd with a Holy Sister , In place of Mate To propagate The Holy Seed , he kiss'd her . Help , etc About the time of Midnight , When th' Saints are Caterwauling , The Youngster came To cherish the Dame , While the Cuckold was a stroleing . Help , etc For while her Factious Gaol-bird , That Type of Reformation , Lay close by the heels , The slippery Eels Lay in close Copulation . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each pious Covenanter , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , If a Sister turns a Ranter ? But as the Devil wou'd have it , The Devil of Lust and Malice , That night he broke Gaol , And boggl'd her Tail ; She wish'd him at the Gallows . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each zealous Covenanter , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , If a Sister turns a Ranter ? For at the usual hour , In comes the Clerk oth' Quorum ; Where to spoil the Plot , The Devil had god Possession long before him . Help , etc My fairest Helen open , Here's thy own loving Paris : Get away from my door , You Son of a whore , For here's th' old Cuckold Harris . Help , etc Then damn the Factious Lubber , To spoil our Recreation : Quoth Harris , what's there ? 'Tis nothing , my Dear , But the Spirit of Revelation . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each zealous Covenanter , Who wou'd credit Ben. Took , Tho' he swore on a Book , That a Saint should turn a Ranter ? Old The Second Part. Old Ben who much suspected 'Twas more then a bore Vision , Began for to peep , And slept Dogsleep , Till he found the Apparition . Help , etc The Covenanting Brother , According to Indenture , With Ink in Pen Came there again Next Night , but could not enter . Help , etc He knocked beneath the window , What can you sleep so soundly ? Open , my Dear : Quoth Ben , are you there ? I'le handle you profoundly . Help , etc In Gown of Wife , and Slippers , While she lay in a slumber , Perplex'd with cares , He crept down Stairs , Arm'd with good Cudgel Lumber . Help , etc Who's there ? quoth watchful Argus : 'Tis I in longing passion , Give me a kiss : Quoth Ben , take this , A Dryden's Salutation . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , Each zealous Covenanter , What wonder the Atheist L' --------- should turn 'Papist , When a Zealot turns a Ranter ? What means this strangeness , Madam ? I mean to cool your Courage : Take this , you Rogue , I'le send you , Dog , To hunt for other Forage . Help , etc The Wife scar'd in the Buzzle , My Dear , what is the matter ? You're a Whore , quoth he , You are , quoth she , A Villain and a Traitor . Help , etc I'le have thee scourg'd by Baxter , Quoth he , at the next Lecture , For prostrating To any thing Beneath a Lord Protector . Help , etc Quoth she , I'le have thee Quarter'd , Thou Scribbling Factious Felon , For publishing Against the King Sedition and Rebellion . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , All pious Covenanters , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , When a Sister turns a Ranter ? Have I , quoth he , escaped The Pillory and Committal , The Gallows and The Laws oth' Land , To be proclaim'd a Wittal ? Help , etc What will the Bloody Plotters Say of a Holy Brother , When we our selves Lay Traps and Shelves To Counterplot each other ? Help , etc But now for and Expedient , Left they should us bespatter , We'l say the Spark's A Popish Shark , And that will salve the matter . Help , etc We'l say he was a Papist L' ------ had sent to Fire us ; So thou art clear , My dearest Dear , And the Saints will still admire us . Help Care , Vile , Smith , and Curtis , And each true Covenanter , What hope's have we god To defeat the Sham-Plot , If a Sister turns a Ranter ? FINIS . Printed for the use of the Protestant-Cobler in Pellmell . 