H : 135788 A SONG UPON INFORMATION . To the Tune of , Conventiclers are grown so Brief . I . INforming of late's a Notable Trade ; For he that his Neighbour intends to invade , May pack him to Tyburn ( no more's to be said ) Such Power hath Information : Be Good , & be Just , & Fight for your King , Or stand for your Country's Honour ; You'r sure , by precise Information , to swing ; Such Spells she hath god upon Her. II To Six Hundred and Sixty , from Forty One , She left not a Bishop , nor Clergy-Man ; But compell'd both Church and State to run , By the Strength of the Non-Conformis The Dean and Chapter , Sceptre and Crown , ( The Lords and Commons snarling ) By blessed Information , came tumbling down ; Fair Fruits of and overlong Parling . III . 'Twas This that summon'd the Bodkins all , The Thimbles , and Spoons , to the City-Hall ; When St. Hugh to the Babes of Grace did call , To prop up the Cause that was sinking : This made the Coblar take the Sword , The Pedlar , and the Weaver , By the Power of the Spirit , and not by the Word , Made the Tinker wear Cloak and Beaver . IV. 'Tis Information from Valle-do-Leed , Makes Jesuits , Friars , and Monks to Bleed , Decapitates Lords , and what not indeed , Does such Damnable Information . It Cities Burns , and sticks not to boast , Without any Mincing or Scruple ; Of Forty Thousand Black Bills by the Post , Brought in with the Devil's Pupil . V. This Imp with her Jealousies and Fears , Puts all Men together by the Ears , Strikes at Religion , and Kingdoms tears , By Voting against the Brother . This makes Abhorrers , makes Lords Protest , They know not why , nor wherefore : This strikes at Successuon , but aims at the Rest ; Pray look about you therefore . VI . This raiseth Armies in the Air , Imagining more than you need have to fear ; Keeps Horse under Ground , and Arms to tear The Cities and Towns in sunder . 'Tis this made the Knight to Newark run , With his Fidus Acates behind him ; Who brought for the Father , one more like the Son , The Devil and Zeal did so blind him . VII . It Whips , it Strips , it Hangs , and Draws , It Pillories also without any Cause , By Falsely Informing the Judges and Laws , With a Trick from Salamanca : This Hurly-Burly's all the Town , Makes Smith and Harris prattle ; Who spare neither Cassock , Cloak , nor Gown , In their Paltry Tittle Tattle . VIII . 'Tis Information Affrights us all ; By Information , we Rise and Fallen ; Without Information , there's no Plot at all : And all is but Information . That Pickering stood in the Park with a Gun , And Godfrey , by Berry , was Strangled ; 'Twas from Information such Stories begun , Which the Nation so much have Entangled . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for M.R. in the YEAR , 1681. H : 135788 A SONG UPON INFORMATION . To the Tune of , Conventiclers are grown so Brief . I . INforming of late's a Notable Trade ; For he that his Neighbour intends to invade , May pack him to Tyburn ( no more's to be said ) Such Power hath Information : Be Good , & be Just , & Fight for your King , Or stand for your Country's Honour ; You'r sure , by precise Information , to swing ; Such Spells she hath god upon Her. II To Six Hundred and Sixty , from Forty One , She left not a Bishop , nor Clergy-Man ; But compell'd both Church and State to run , By the Strength of the Non-Conformis The Dean and Chapter , Sceptre and Crown , ( The Lords and Commons snarling ) By blessed Information , came tumbling down ; Fair Fruits of and overlong Parling . III . 'Twas This that summon'd the Bodkins all , The Thimbles , and Spoons , to the City-Hall ; When St. Hugh to the Babes of Grace did call , To prop up the Cause that was sinking : This made the Coblar take the Sword , The Pedlar , and the Weaver , By the Power of the Spirit , and not by the Word , Made the Tinker wear Cloak and Beaver . IV. 'Tis Information from Valle-do-Leed , Makes Jesuits , Friars , and Monks to Bleed , Decapitates Lords , and what not indeed , Does such Damnable Information . It Cities Burns , and sticks not to boast , Without any Mincing or Scruple ; Of Forty Thousand Black Bills by the Post , Brought in with the Devil's Pupil . V. This Imp with her Jealousies and Fears , Puts all Men together by the Ears , Strikes at Religion , and Kingdoms tears , By Voting against the Brother . This makes Abhorrers , makes Lords Protest , They know not why , nor wherefore : This strikes at Successuon , but aims at the Rest ; Pray look about you therefore . VI . This raiseth Armies in the Air , Imagining more than you need have to fear ; Keeps Horse under Ground , and Arms to tear The Cities and Towns in sunder . 'Tis this made the Knight to Newark run , With his Fidus Acates behind him ; Who brought for the Father , one more like the Son , The Devil and Zeal did so blind him . VII . It Whips , it Strips , it Hangs , and Draws , It Pillories also without any Cause , By Falsely Informing the Judges and Laws , With a Trick from Salamanca : This Hurly-Burly's all the Town , Makes Smith and Harris prattle ; Who spare neither Cassock , Cloak , nor Gown , In their Paltry Tittle Tattle . VIII . 'Tis Information Affrights us all ; By Information , we Rise and Fallen ; Without Information , there's no Plot at all : And all is but Information . That Pickering stood in the Park with a Gun , And Godfrey , by Berry , was Strangled ; 'Twas from Information such Stories begun , Which the Nation so much have Entangled . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for M.R. in the YEAR , 1681. 