H : 135798 THE Plotting Cards Reviv'd , Or , the New game at Forty One . To the Tune of , I tell the Dick , etc The First Part. 1. COme , cut again ; the Game's not done , Though strangely yet the Cards have run , As if they pack't had been : Most , likely are to lose , and say They know not what's next best to Play : Such shuffling ne're was seen . 2. Look well ( my Master's ) to your hits , And have about you all your wits , For high the Play do's run ; Three Kingdoms now at stake do lie , And Rooks all hocus-tricks do try , That you may be undone . 3. On Clubs and Spades , some wholly bet , For they the most are like to get , While Hearts in vain contest ; And Diamonds too , unto their cost Who have them , sure are to be lost , The Blackest Cards are best . 4. God Bless all King's and Queen's , though now The best Coate-Cards , ( the Lord knows how ) At this preposterous Game , Are all like to Commanded be , And trump't with all their Royalty , By every Knavish Pam. 5. So Hewson blind ( though he be dead , ) Alive was by blind Fortune led , And still did winning go , And ever since we find that he , Sweep's all with his Effigy , The great Pamphilio . 6. Nay Trays and Duces , which were deem'd The basest Cards , are now esteem'd Prime ones to win the Day , So that you see , to gain the prize , Poor King's and Queen's you must despise , And Honours throw away . 7. Thus the best Cards are now the worst , And what was last is become first , No wonder now adais : The Nation topsy turvy lies , And as 'twere pleas'd with CONTRARIES , At losing Load'um Plays . The Second Part. 8. THis is like some Utopian game , Where Servant Maids control their Dame , And King's are Subject's made ; Felons their Judges do indite , And he a Traitor is down right , Who falsely is betray'd . 9. A Dunce who never took Degrees , But such as led to Villainies , A DOCTOR is most found . He who to furnish his own wants , Can seize Gold-Cross , or Silver-Saints A JUSTICE is renown'd . 10. Who Horse to Battle never led , But has with many Horses fled , Out of his Neighbours field , A CAPTAIN is , and with his word , Kills more than with his dull Sword , He ever made to yield . 11. A VILLAIN , who can cheat his Lord Gets Chains of Gold , instead of Cord , And is from Prison freed : For HIM who says he Murdered has , A Pardon both for that do's pass , And all he ever did . 12. WHO for fowl Crimes and Forgeries , Has worn the Yoke of Pillories , And has been whipped about , If he but add new Perjury , He wipes off passed Iniquity , And speaks Truth without doubt . 13. He that had rather choose to die , Then to Redeem his Life and Lie ; Is the only perjur'd Rogue : And they who Damn themselves to live , Sure signs of their Probation give , For they're the Saints in vogue . 14. Then Play away , ( good Country Man , ) What Hand's the best , is now most plain , And boldly thou may'st Stake ; A PACK of KNAVES together get , And never doubt to win the Set , For They the Voll will make . FINIS . H : 135798 THE Plotting Cards Reviv'd , Or , the New game at Forty One . To the Tune of , I tell the Dick , etc The First Part. 1. COme , cut again ; the Game's not done , Though strangely yet the Cards have run , As if they pack't had been : Most , likely are to lose , and say They know not what's next best to Play : Such shuffling ne're was seen . 2. Look well ( my Master's ) to your hits , And have about you all your wits , For high the Play do's run ; Three Kingdoms now at stake do lie , And Rooks all hocus-tricks do try , That you may be undone . 3. On Clubs and Spades , some wholly bet , For they the most are like to get , While Hearts in vain contest ; And Diamonds too , unto their cost Who have them , sure are to be lost , The Blackest Cards are best . 4. God Bless all King's and Queen's , though now The best Coate-Cards , ( the Lord knows how ) At this preposterous Game , Are all like to Commanded be , And trump't with all their Royalty , By every Knavish Pam. 5. So Hewson blind ( though he be dead , ) Alive was by blind Fortune led , And still did winning go , And ever since we find that he , Sweep's all with his Effigy , The great Pamphilio . 6. Nay Trays and Duces , which were deem'd The basest Cards , are now esteem'd Prime ones to win the Day , So that you see , to gain the prize , Poor King's and Queen's you must despise , And Honours throw away . 7. Thus the best Cards are now the worst , And what was last is become first , No wonder now adais : The Nation topsy turvy lies , And as 'twere pleas'd with CONTRARIES , At losing Load'um Plays . The Second Part. 8. THis is like some Utopian game , Where Servant Maids control their Dame , And King's are Subject's made ; Felons their Judges do indite , And he a Traitor is down right , Who falsely is betray'd . 9. A Dunce who never took Degrees , But such as led to Villainies , A DOCTOR is most found . He who to furnish his own wants , Can seize Gold-Cross , or Silver-Saints A JUSTICE is renown'd . 10. Who Horse to Battle never led , But has with many Horses fled , Out of his Neighbours field , A CAPTAIN is , and with his word , Kills more than with his dull Sword , He ever made to yield . 11. A VILLAIN , who can cheat his Lord Gets Chains of Gold , instead of Cord , And is from Prison freed : For HIM who says he Murdered has , A Pardon both for that do's pass , And all he ever did . 12. WHO for fowl Crimes and Forgeries , Has worn the Yoke of Pillories , And has been whipped about , If he but add new Perjury , He wipes off passed Iniquity , And speaks Truth without doubt . 13. He that had rather choose to die , Then to Redeem his Life and Lie ; Is the only perjur'd Rogue : And they who Damn themselves to live , Sure signs of their Probation give , For they're the Saints in vogue . 14. Then Play away , ( good Country Man , ) What Hand's the best , is now most plain , And boldly thou may'st Stake ; A PACK of KNAVES together get , And never doubt to win the Set , For They the Voll will make . FINIS . H : 135798 THE Plotting Cards Reviv'd , Or , the New game at Forty One . To the Tune of , I tell the Dick , etc The First Part. 1. COme , cut again ; the Game's not done , Though strangely yet the Cards have run , As if they pack't had been : Most , likely are to lose , and say They know not what's next best to Play : Such shuffling ne're was seen . 2. Look well ( my Master's ) to your hits , And have about you all your wits , For high the Play do's run ; Three Kingdoms now at stake do lie , And Rooks all hocus-tricks do try , That you may be undone . 3. On Clubs and Spades , some wholly bet , For they the most are like to get , While Hearts in vain contest ; And Diamonds too , unto their cost Who have them , sure are to be lost , The Blackest Cards are best . 4. God Bless all King's and Queen's , though now The best Coate-Cards , ( the Lord knows how ) At this preposterous Game , Are all like to Commanded be , And trump't with all their Royalty , By every Knavish Pam. 5. So Hewson blind ( though he be dead , ) Alive was by blind Fortune led , And still did winning go , And ever since we find that he , Sweep's all with his Effigy , The great Pamphilio . 6. Nay Trays and Duces , which were deem'd The basest Cards , are now esteem'd Prime ones to win the Day , So that you see , to gain the prize , Poor King's and Queen's you must despise , And Honours throw away . 7. Thus the best Cards are now the worst , And what was last is become first , No wonder now adais : The Nation topsy turvy lies , And as 'twere pleas'd with CONTRARIES , At losing Load'um Plays . The Second Part. 8. THis is like some Utopian game , Where Servant Maids control their Dame , And King's are Subject's made ; Felons their Judges do indite , And he a Traitor is down right , Who falsely is betray'd . 9. A Dunce who never took Degrees , But such as led to Villainies , A DOCTOR is most found . He who to furnish his own wants , Can seize Gold-Cross , or Silver-Saints A JUSTICE is renown'd . 10. Who Horse to Battle never led , But has with many Horses fled , Out of his Neighbours field , A CAPTAIN is , and with his word , Kills more than with his dull Sword , He ever made to yield . 11. A VILLAIN , who can cheat his Lord Gets Chains of Gold , instead of Cord , And is from Prison freed : For HIM who says he Murdered has , A Pardon both for that do's pass , And all he ever did . 12. WHO for fowl Crimes and Forgeries , Has worn the Yoke of Pillories , And has been whipped about , If he but add new Perjury , He wipes off passed Iniquity , And speaks Truth without doubt . 13. He that had rather choose to die , Then to Redeem his Life and Lie ; Is the only perjur'd Rogue : And they who Damn themselves to live , Sure signs of their Probation give , For they're the Saints in vogue . 14. Then Play away , ( good Country Man , ) What Hand's the best , is now most plain , And boldly thou may'st Stake ; A PACK of KNAVES together get , And never doubt to win the Set , For They the Voll will make . FINIS . H : 135798 THE Plotting Cards Reviv'd , Or , the New game at Forty One . To the Tune of , I tell the Dick , etc The First Part. 1. COme , cut again ; the Game's not done , Though strangely yet the Cards have run , As if they pack't had been : Most , likely are to lose , and say They know not what's next best to Play : Such shuffling ne're was seen . 2. Look well ( my Master's ) to your hits , And have about you all your wits , For high the Play do's run ; Three Kingdoms now at stake do lie , And Rooks all hocus-tricks do try , That you may be undone . 3. On Clubs and Spades , some wholly bet , For they the most are like to get , While Hearts in vain contest ; And Diamonds too , unto their cost Who have them , sure are to be lost , The Blackest Cards are best . 4. God Bless all King's and Queen's , though now The best Coate-Cards , ( the Lord knows how ) At this preposterous Game , Are all like to Commanded be , And trump't with all their Royalty , By every Knavish Pam. 5. So Hewson blind ( though he be dead , ) Alive was by blind Fortune led , And still did winning go , And ever since we find that he , Sweep's all with his Effigy , The great Pamphilio . 6. Nay Trays and Duces , which were deem'd The basest Cards , are now esteem'd Prime ones to win the Day , So that you see , to gain the prize , Poor King's and Queen's you must despise , And Honours throw away . 7. Thus the best Cards are now the worst , And what was last is become first , No wonder now adais : The Nation topsy turvy lies , And as 'twere pleas'd with CONTRARIES , At losing Load'um Plays . The Second Part. 8. THis is like some Utopian game , Where Servant Maids control their Dame , And King's are Subject's made ; Felons their Judges do indite , And he a Traitor is down right , Who falsely is betray'd . 9. A Dunce who never took Degrees , But such as led to Villainies , A DOCTOR is most found . He who to furnish his own wants , Can seize Gold-Cross , or Silver-Saints A JUSTICE is renown'd . 10. Who Horse to Battle never led , But has with many Horses fled , Out of his Neighbours field , A CAPTAIN is , and with his word , Kills more than with his dull Sword , He ever made to yield . 11. A VILLAIN , who can cheat his Lord Gets Chains of Gold , instead of Cord , And is from Prison freed : For HIM who says he Murdered has , A Pardon both for that do's pass , And all he ever did . 12. WHO for fowl Crimes and Forgeries , Has worn the Yoke of Pillories , And has been whipped about , If he but add new Perjury , He wipes off passed Iniquity , And speaks Truth without doubt . 13. He that had rather choose to die , Then to Redeem his Life and Lie ; Is the only perjur'd Rogue : And they who Damn themselves to live , Sure signs of their Probation give , For they're the Saints in vogue . 14. Then Play away , ( good Country Man , ) What Hand's the best , is now most plain , And boldly thou may'st Stake ; A PACK of KNAVES together get , And never doubt to win the Set , For They the Voll will make . FINIS . 