H : 135802 THE Loyal Apprentices PROTESTATION . ALas ! What Times are those we're like to see , When Men are stigmatiz'd for LOYALTY ; And called Tivies , Tories , and what not , And worse abus'd than those concern'd I'th' PLOT ? And we Poor 'Prentices , how we're abus'd , Because to side with Faction we refus'd : Had we with Clubs and Staves run to Whitehall , And there demanded Things Irrational : Run into Churches , and tore Common-Prayers , Pull'd out the Good old Bishops by the Ears , And rend the Surplices , those decent Wares ; Reviv'd but Forty One again ; Oh then , Instead of VERMIN , we'd been Gentlemen ! But hold Impartial , We are not so mad For to displease our KING , to make thee glad ; I know full well that's it thou'dst have Us doe , But know dull Ass , we'll not be advis'd by you . Thou simple Sot , the very worst of Fools , Dost think to make Us Forty One Tools ; By Publishing thy damn'd fallacious Stories , To asperse those Loyal Men , whom thou call'st Tories ? Who can expect peaceable Times to see , While thou art thus fomenting Enmity ? And is this the way t' Extirpate the Pope : Judge now thy self if thou do'nt merit R ..... But on , thou damn'd Incendiary , Print what you will , We London APPRENTICES will be Loyal still : We ever lov'd our KING , and ever shall ; And for his Service , our Lives and Fortune's all Does lie prepar'd , while he has need to call . In the mean time We Apprentices will Sing , And clap our Hands , and say , God save our King . Printed by A.B. and sold by Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall , 1681. H : 135802 THE Loyal Apprentices PROTESTATION . ALas ! What Times are those we're like to see , When Men are stigmatiz'd for LOYALTY ; And called Tivies , Tories , and what not , And worse abus'd than those concern'd I'th' PLOT ? And we Poor 'Prentices , how we're abus'd , Because to side with Faction we refus'd : Had we with Clubs and Staves run to Whitehall , And there demanded Things Irrational : Run into Churches , and tore Common-Prayers , Pull'd out the Good old Bishops by the Ears , And rend the Surplices , those decent Wares ; Reviv'd but Forty One again ; Oh then , Instead of VERMIN , we'd been Gentlemen ! But hold Impartial , We are not so mad For to displease our KING , to make thee glad ; I know full well that's it thou'dst have Us doe , But know dull Ass , we'll not be advis'd by you . Thou simple Sot , the very worst of Fools , Dost think to make Us Forty One Tools ; By Publishing thy damn'd fallacious Stories , To asperse those Loyal Men , whom thou call'st Tories ? Who can expect peaceable Times to see , While thou art thus fomenting Enmity ? And is this the way t' Extirpate the Pope : Judge now thy self if thou do'nt merit R ..... But on , thou damn'd Incendiary , Print what you will , We London APPRENTICES will be Loyal still : We ever lov'd our KING , and ever shall ; And for his Service , our Lives and Fortune's all Does lie prepar'd , while he has need to call . In the mean time We Apprentices will Sing , And clap our Hands , and say , God save our King . Printed by A.B. and sold by Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall , 1681. H : 135802 THE Loyal Apprentices PROTESTATION . ALas ! What Times are those we're like to see , When Men are stigmatiz'd for LOYALTY ; And called Tivies , Tories , and what not , And worse abus'd than those concern'd I'th' PLOT ? And we Poor 'Prentices , how we're abus'd , Because to side with Faction we refus'd : Had we with Clubs and Staves run to Whitehall , And there demanded Things Irrational : Run into Churches , and tore Common-Prayers , Pull'd out the Good old Bishops by the Ears , And rend the Surplices , those decent Wares ; Reviv'd but Forty One again ; Oh then , Instead of VERMIN , we'd been Gentlemen ! But hold Impartial , We are not so mad For to displease our KING , to make thee glad ; I know full well that's it thou'dst have Us doe , But know dull Ass , we'll not be advis'd by you . Thou simple Sot , the very worst of Fools , Dost think to make Us Forty One Tools ; By Publishing thy damn'd fallacious Stories , To asperse those Loyal Men , whom thou call'st Tories ? Who can expect peaceable Times to see , While thou art thus fomenting Enmity ? And is this the way t' Extirpate the Pope : Judge now thy self if thou do'nt merit R ..... But on , thou damn'd Incendiary , Print what you will , We London APPRENTICES will be Loyal still : We ever lov'd our KING , and ever shall ; And for his Service , our Lives and Fortune's all Does lie prepar'd , while he has need to call . In the mean time We Apprentices will Sing , And clap our Hands , and say , God save our King . Printed by A.B. and sold by Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall , 1681. H : 135802 THE Loyal Apprentices PROTESTATION . ALas ! What Times are those we're like to see , When Men are stigmatiz'd for LOYALTY ; And called Tivies , Tories , and what not , And worse abus'd than those concern'd I'th' PLOT ? And we Poor 'Prentices , how we're abus'd , Because to side with Faction we refus'd : Had we with Clubs and Staves run to Whitehall , And there demanded Things Irrational : Run into Churches , and tore Common-Prayers , Pull'd out the Good old Bishops by the Ears , And rend the Surplices , those decent Wares ; Reviv'd but Forty One again ; Oh then , Instead of VERMIN , we'd been Gentlemen ! But hold Impartial , We are not so mad For to displease our KING , to make thee glad ; I know full well that's it thou'dst have Us doe , But know dull Ass , we'll not be advis'd by you . Thou simple Sot , the very worst of Fools , Dost think to make Us Forty One Tools ; By Publishing thy damn'd fallacious Stories , To asperse those Loyal Men , whom thou call'st Tories ? Who can expect peaceable Times to see , While thou art thus fomenting Enmity ? And is this the way t' Extirpate the Pope : Judge now thy self if thou do'nt merit R ..... But on , thou damn'd Incendiary , Print what you will , We London APPRENTICES will be Loyal still : We ever lov'd our KING , and ever shall ; And for his Service , our Lives and Fortune's all Does lie prepar'd , while he has need to call . In the mean time We Apprentices will Sing , And clap our Hands , and say , God save our King . Printed by A.B. and sold by Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall , 1681. 