H : 135827 The WHIG's Exaltation ; A Pleasant New SONG of 82. To and Old Tune of 41. NOw Now the Tories all shall stoop , Religion and the Laws , and Whigs on Commonwealth Get up to Tap the Good Old Cause ; Tantivy-Boys shall all go down , And haughty Monarchy ; The Leathern Cap shall brave the Throne ; Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 2 ) When once that Antichristian Crew Are crush'd , and Overthrown , We'l teach the Nobles how to bow , And keep their Gentry down ; Good Manners has a bad Repute , And tends to Pride we see ; We'l therefore cry all Breeding down , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 3 ) The Name of Lord shall be Abhor'd , For ev'ry Man's a Brother ; What Reason then in Church or State One Man should Rule another ? Thus having Pill'd and Plunder'd all , And Level'd each Degree , We'l make their plump young Daughters fallen , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 4 ) What though the KING and Parliament Cannot accord together , We have good Cause to be Content , This is Our Sunshine Weather ; For if good Reason should take place , And they should both agree , 'Dzowns who'd be in a Roundheads Case , For Heigh then up go We ? ( 5 ) We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is Professed ; For they still Practice , and Maintain The Language of the Beast ; We'l Exercise in every Grove , And Preach beneath a Tree ; We'l make a Pulpit of a Tub , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 6 ) The Whigs shall Rule Committee Chair , Who will such Laws Invent , As shall Exclude the Lawful Heir By Act of Parliament We'l cut His Royal Highness down , E'en shorter by the Knee , That He shall never reach the Throne , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 7 ) We'l Smite the Idol in Guild-Hall , And Then ( as we were wont , ) We'l cry it was a Popish Plot , And Swear those Rogues have don't ; His Royal Highness to Unthrown Our Interest will be , For if He e're Enjoy His own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 8 ) We'l break the Windows which the Whore Of Babylon has Painted ; And when their Bishops are pull'd down , Our Elders shall be Sainted : Thus having quite Enslav'd the Throne , Pretending to set Free , At last the Gallows claims its own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . LONDON , Printed by Nath. Thompson Anno Domini , 1682. H : 135827 The WHIG's Exaltation ; A Pleasant New SONG of 82. To and Old Tune of 41. NOw Now the Tories all shall stoop , Religion and the Laws , and Whigs on Commonwealth Get up to Tap the Good Old Cause ; Tantivy-Boys shall all go down , And haughty Monarchy ; The Leathern Cap shall brave the Throne ; Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 2 ) When once that Antichristian Crew Are crush'd , and Overthrown , We'l teach the Nobles how to bow , And keep their Gentry down ; Good Manners has a bad Repute , And tends to Pride we see ; We'l therefore cry all Breeding down , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 3 ) The Name of Lord shall be Abhor'd , For ev'ry Man's a Brother ; What Reason then in Church or State One Man should Rule another ? Thus having Pill'd and Plunder'd all , And Level'd each Degree , We'l make their plump young Daughters fallen , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 4 ) What though the KING and Parliament Cannot accord together , We have good Cause to be Content , This is Our Sunshine Weather ; For if good Reason should take place , And they should both agree , 'Dzowns who'd be in a Roundheads Case , For Heigh then up go We ? ( 5 ) We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is Professed ; For they still Practice , and Maintain The Language of the Beast ; We'l Exercise in every Grove , And Preach beneath a Tree ; We'l make a Pulpit of a Tub , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 6 ) The Whigs shall Rule Committee Chair , Who will such Laws Invent , As shall Exclude the Lawful Heir By Act of Parliament We'l cut His Royal Highness down , E'en shorter by the Knee , That He shall never reach the Throne , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 7 ) We'l Smite the Idol in Guild-Hall , And Then ( as we were wont , ) We'l cry it was a Popish Plot , And Swear those Rogues have don't ; His Royal Highness to Unthrown Our Interest will be , For if He e're Enjoy His own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 8 ) We'l break the Windows which the Whore Of Babylon has Painted ; And when their Bishops are pull'd down , Our Elders shall be Sainted : Thus having quite Enslav'd the Throne , Pretending to set Free , At last the Gallows claims its own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . LONDON , Printed by Nath. Thompson Anno Domini , 1682. H : 135827 The WHIG's Exaltation ; A Pleasant New SONG of 82. To and Old Tune of 41. NOw Now the Tories all shall stoop , Religion and the Laws , and Whigs on Commonwealth Get up to Tap the Good Old Cause ; Tantivy-Boys shall all go down , And haughty Monarchy ; The Leathern Cap shall brave the Throne ; Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 2 ) When once that Antichristian Crew Are crush'd , and Overthrown , We'l teach the Nobles how to bow , And keep their Gentry down ; Good Manners has a bad Repute , And tends to Pride we see ; We'l therefore cry all Breeding down , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 3 ) The Name of Lord shall be Abhor'd , For ev'ry Man's a Brother ; What Reason then in Church or State One Man should Rule another ? Thus having Pill'd and Plunder'd all , And Level'd each Degree , We'l make their plump young Daughters fallen , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 4 ) What though the KING and Parliament Cannot accord together , We have good Cause to be Content , This is Our Sunshine Weather ; For if good Reason should take place , And they should both agree , 'Dzowns who'd be in a Roundheads Case , For Heigh then up go We ? ( 5 ) We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is Professed ; For they still Practice , and Maintain The Language of the Beast ; We'l Exercise in every Grove , And Preach beneath a Tree ; We'l make a Pulpit of a Tub , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 6 ) The Whigs shall Rule Committee Chair , Who will such Laws Invent , As shall Exclude the Lawful Heir By Act of Parliament We'l cut His Royal Highness down , E'en shorter by the Knee , That He shall never reach the Throne , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 7 ) We'l Smite the Idol in Guild-Hall , And Then ( as we were wont , ) We'l cry it was a Popish Plot , And Swear those Rogues have don't ; His Royal Highness to Unthrown Our Interest will be , For if He e're Enjoy His own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 8 ) We'l break the Windows which the Whore Of Babylon has Painted ; And when their Bishops are pull'd down , Our Elders shall be Sainted : Thus having quite Enslav'd the Throne , Pretending to set Free , At last the Gallows claims its own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . LONDON , Printed by Nath. Thompson Anno Domini , 1682. H : 135827 The WHIG's Exaltation ; A Pleasant New SONG of 82. To and Old Tune of 41. NOw Now the Tories all shall stoop , Religion and the Laws , and Whigs on Commonwealth Get up to Tap the Good Old Cause ; Tantivy-Boys shall all go down , And haughty Monarchy ; The Leathern Cap shall brave the Throne ; Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 2 ) When once that Antichristian Crew Are crush'd , and Overthrown , We'l teach the Nobles how to bow , And keep their Gentry down ; Good Manners has a bad Repute , And tends to Pride we see ; We'l therefore cry all Breeding down , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 3 ) The Name of Lord shall be Abhor'd , For ev'ry Man's a Brother ; What Reason then in Church or State One Man should Rule another ? Thus having Pill'd and Plunder'd all , And Level'd each Degree , We'l make their plump young Daughters fallen , And Hey Boys up go We . ( 4 ) What though the KING and Parliament Cannot accord together , We have good Cause to be Content , This is Our Sunshine Weather ; For if good Reason should take place , And they should both agree , 'Dzowns who'd be in a Roundheads Case , For Heigh then up go We ? ( 5 ) We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is Professed ; For they still Practice , and Maintain The Language of the Beast ; We'l Exercise in every Grove , And Preach beneath a Tree ; We'l make a Pulpit of a Tub , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 6 ) The Whigs shall Rule Committee Chair , Who will such Laws Invent , As shall Exclude the Lawful Heir By Act of Parliament We'l cut His Royal Highness down , E'en shorter by the Knee , That He shall never reach the Throne , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 7 ) We'l Smite the Idol in Guild-Hall , And Then ( as we were wont , ) We'l cry it was a Popish Plot , And Swear those Rogues have don't ; His Royal Highness to Unthrown Our Interest will be , For if He e're Enjoy His own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . ( 8 ) We'l break the Windows which the Whore Of Babylon has Painted ; And when their Bishops are pull'd down , Our Elders shall be Sainted : Thus having quite Enslav'd the Throne , Pretending to set Free , At last the Gallows claims its own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . LONDON , Printed by Nath. Thompson Anno Domini , 1682. 