H : 135836 A Dialogue , between Toney , and the Ghost of the Late LORD VISCOUNT-STAFFORD . Ghost . WHy dost thou restless Spectour haunt a Shade , Who thy false practices , a Ghost has made ? Why dost thou with Incessant rage pursue Those whom thy only Crimes to ruin drew ? Thy false pretences of a wretched PLOT , Whose vile Conception , thy own Brain begotten Much Blood has spilled ; and on thy Head has brought , Heavens Vengeance , for the perjuries thou'st taught . Toney . Poor empty Shadow ? canst thou think that I , Will like thy self , contented go to Die ? Know senseless Shade ; Whenever I do Fallen , Millions at least shall wait my Funeral . The kind believing Crowd ; which I have led Long in a Noose ; and my Revenge has fed : Who still with acclaimations made my Name , Reach to the Clouds t'imortalize my Fame . Will not believe that I , Bent my Designs , t'establish Anarchy , Thou seest I still the Idol am , They think t'was for their Liberties I came , The unthinking Vulgar ; will not see him Fallen Whom they so oft , did their preserver Call . Ghost . Thou Hellish Engine no , Heaven has at last Decreed , to open all thy Treasons past , Thy Insinuating Arts henceforth shall fail , Thy Janus Head at last shall lose it's vail : Thy Canker'd Soul display'd to open view Shall turn on thee , the Venom which they drew , The Peoples Eyes , shall be at last unseal'd And all thy Traitorous Designs Reveal'd ; Thy damned Arts , and Engines , all shall be Lay'd open , the whole World thy PLOTS shall see . Read in thy Heart ; Writ in Large Characters The Hellish Cause of our Domestic Jars : Then to thy horror , thou amaz'd shall see The abus'd People , my Revengers be . Toney . Let it be true , let all the horrors come Thou'st mention'd , Furies join to give me Doom , Let in my Fallen , both Heaven , and Earth Conspire , My deep Designs shall not with Life Expire : My Days , and Nights , ( while here ) I will employ In Studied mischiefs Kingdoms to destroy ; My Emissaries shall Insinuate , Seeking the Nations safety , brought my Fate ; I'll sow such Seeds ; Sedition shall not cease Nor shall they after I am Dead have Peace : For with my fallen , I'll darken all the Stars , And leave the World in Universal Jars . Ghost . Hold Impious wretch , what has thy fury fed ! Add not more Blood to that already Shed ; Think what Reward , to Blood and Treason's Due , And think how many thy Ambition Slew : Think e're it be too late , and think withal Heaven does by me thee to Repentance Call ; The Gates of Mercy are not yet made fast , O! seek it , and Repent thy Treason's pass Or else when Death , has clos'd thy Mortal Eyes , Then EVER will BEGIN thy Misery's . LONDON , Printed for P.M. 1681. H : 135836 A Dialogue , between Toney , and the Ghost of the Late LORD VISCOUNT-STAFFORD . Ghost . WHy dost thou restless Spectour haunt a Shade , Who thy false practices , a Ghost has made ? Why dost thou with Incessant rage pursue Those whom thy only Crimes to ruin drew ? Thy false pretences of a wretched PLOT , Whose vile Conception , thy own Brain begotten Much Blood has spilled ; and on thy Head has brought , Heavens Vengeance , for the perjuries thou'st taught . Toney . Poor empty Shadow ? canst thou think that I , Will like thy self , contented go to Die ? Know senseless Shade ; Whenever I do Fallen , Millions at least shall wait my Funeral . The kind believing Crowd ; which I have led Long in a Noose ; and my Revenge has fed : Who still with acclaimations made my Name , Reach to the Clouds t'imortalize my Fame . Will not believe that I , Bent my Designs , t'establish Anarchy , Thou seest I still the Idol am , They think t'was for their Liberties I came , The unthinking Vulgar ; will not see him Fallen Whom they so oft , did their preserver Call . Ghost . Thou Hellish Engine no , Heaven has at last Decreed , to open all thy Treasons past , Thy Insinuating Arts henceforth shall fail , Thy Janus Head at last shall lose it's vail : Thy Canker'd Soul display'd to open view Shall turn on thee , the Venom which they drew , The Peoples Eyes , shall be at last unseal'd And all thy Traitorous Designs Reveal'd ; Thy damned Arts , and Engines , all shall be Lay'd open , the whole World thy PLOTS shall see . Read in thy Heart ; Writ in Large Characters The Hellish Cause of our Domestic Jars : Then to thy horror , thou amaz'd shall see The abus'd People , my Revengers be . Toney . Let it be true , let all the horrors come Thou'st mention'd , Furies join to give me Doom , Let in my Fallen , both Heaven , and Earth Conspire , My deep Designs shall not with Life Expire : My Days , and Nights , ( while here ) I will employ In Studied mischiefs Kingdoms to destroy ; My Emissaries shall Insinuate , Seeking the Nations safety , brought my Fate ; I'll sow such Seeds ; Sedition shall not cease Nor shall they after I am Dead have Peace : For with my fallen , I'll darken all the Stars , And leave the World in Universal Jars . Ghost . Hold Impious wretch , what has thy fury fed ! Add not more Blood to that already Shed ; Think what Reward , to Blood and Treason's Due , And think how many thy Ambition Slew : Think e're it be too late , and think withal Heaven does by me thee to Repentance Call ; The Gates of Mercy are not yet made fast , O! seek it , and Repent thy Treason's pass Or else when Death , has clos'd thy Mortal Eyes , Then EVER will BEGIN thy Misery's . LONDON , Printed for P.M. 1681. H : 135836 A Dialogue , between Toney , and the Ghost of the Late LORD VISCOUNT-STAFFORD . Ghost . WHy dost thou restless Spectour haunt a Shade , Who thy false practices , a Ghost has made ? Why dost thou with Incessant rage pursue Those whom thy only Crimes to ruin drew ? Thy false pretences of a wretched PLOT , Whose vile Conception , thy own Brain begotten Much Blood has spilled ; and on thy Head has brought , Heavens Vengeance , for the perjuries thou'st taught . Toney . Poor empty Shadow ? canst thou think that I , Will like thy self , contented go to Die ? Know senseless Shade ; Whenever I do Fallen , Millions at least shall wait my Funeral . The kind believing Crowd ; which I have led Long in a Noose ; and my Revenge has fed : Who still with acclaimations made my Name , Reach to the Clouds t'imortalize my Fame . Will not believe that I , Bent my Designs , t'establish Anarchy , Thou seest I still the Idol am , They think t'was for their Liberties I came , The unthinking Vulgar ; will not see him Fallen Whom they so oft , did their preserver Call . Ghost . Thou Hellish Engine no , Heaven has at last Decreed , to open all thy Treasons past , Thy Insinuating Arts henceforth shall fail , Thy Janus Head at last shall lose it's vail : Thy Canker'd Soul display'd to open view Shall turn on thee , the Venom which they drew , The Peoples Eyes , shall be at last unseal'd And all thy Traitorous Designs Reveal'd ; Thy damned Arts , and Engines , all shall be Lay'd open , the whole World thy PLOTS shall see . Read in thy Heart ; Writ in Large Characters The Hellish Cause of our Domestic Jars : Then to thy horror , thou amaz'd shall see The abus'd People , my Revengers be . Toney . Let it be true , let all the horrors come Thou'st mention'd , Furies join to give me Doom , Let in my Fallen , both Heaven , and Earth Conspire , My deep Designs shall not with Life Expire : My Days , and Nights , ( while here ) I will employ In Studied mischiefs Kingdoms to destroy ; My Emissaries shall Insinuate , Seeking the Nations safety , brought my Fate ; I'll sow such Seeds ; Sedition shall not cease Nor shall they after I am Dead have Peace : For with my fallen , I'll darken all the Stars , And leave the World in Universal Jars . Ghost . Hold Impious wretch , what has thy fury fed ! Add not more Blood to that already Shed ; Think what Reward , to Blood and Treason's Due , And think how many thy Ambition Slew : Think e're it be too late , and think withal Heaven does by me thee to Repentance Call ; The Gates of Mercy are not yet made fast , O! seek it , and Repent thy Treason's pass Or else when Death , has clos'd thy Mortal Eyes , Then EVER will BEGIN thy Misery's . LONDON , Printed for P.M. 1681. H : 135836 A Dialogue , between Toney , and the Ghost of the Late LORD VISCOUNT-STAFFORD . Ghost . WHy dost thou restless Spectour haunt a Shade , Who thy false practices , a Ghost has made ? Why dost thou with Incessant rage pursue Those whom thy only Crimes to ruin drew ? Thy false pretences of a wretched PLOT , Whose vile Conception , thy own Brain begotten Much Blood has spilled ; and on thy Head has brought , Heavens Vengeance , for the perjuries thou'st taught . Toney . Poor empty Shadow ? canst thou think that I , Will like thy self , contented go to Die ? Know senseless Shade ; Whenever I do Fallen , Millions at least shall wait my Funeral . The kind believing Crowd ; which I have led Long in a Noose ; and my Revenge has fed : Who still with acclaimations made my Name , Reach to the Clouds t'imortalize my Fame . Will not believe that I , Bent my Designs , t'establish Anarchy , Thou seest I still the Idol am , They think t'was for their Liberties I came , The unthinking Vulgar ; will not see him Fallen Whom they so oft , did their preserver Call . Ghost . Thou Hellish Engine no , Heaven has at last Decreed , to open all thy Treasons past , Thy Insinuating Arts henceforth shall fail , Thy Janus Head at last shall lose it's vail : Thy Canker'd Soul display'd to open view Shall turn on thee , the Venom which they drew , The Peoples Eyes , shall be at last unseal'd And all thy Traitorous Designs Reveal'd ; Thy damned Arts , and Engines , all shall be Lay'd open , the whole World thy PLOTS shall see . Read in thy Heart ; Writ in Large Characters The Hellish Cause of our Domestic Jars : Then to thy horror , thou amaz'd shall see The abus'd People , my Revengers be . Toney . Let it be true , let all the horrors come Thou'st mention'd , Furies join to give me Doom , Let in my Fallen , both Heaven , and Earth Conspire , My deep Designs shall not with Life Expire : My Days , and Nights , ( while here ) I will employ In Studied mischiefs Kingdoms to destroy ; My Emissaries shall Insinuate , Seeking the Nations safety , brought my Fate ; I'll sow such Seeds ; Sedition shall not cease Nor shall they after I am Dead have Peace : For with my fallen , I'll darken all the Stars , And leave the World in Universal Jars . Ghost . Hold Impious wretch , what has thy fury fed ! Add not more Blood to that already Shed ; Think what Reward , to Blood and Treason's Due , And think how many thy Ambition Slew : Think e're it be too late , and think withal Heaven does by me thee to Repentance Call ; The Gates of Mercy are not yet made fast , O! seek it , and Repent thy Treason's pass Or else when Death , has clos'd thy Mortal Eyes , Then EVER will BEGIN thy Misery's . LONDON , Printed for P.M. 1681. 