H : 135833 A PILLAR Erected to the Memorial of Popish-Nat , showing how unlike the Best , and how like the worst of Men he is . IN Holy-Record we do read , Of a Nathaniel indeed ; A Man of Christ gave that Style , And Israelite in whom's no Guile . Our day yields a Nathaniel , A Popish-Brat , Spew'd out of Hell ; A Man that is in very Deed , The offspring of the Serpents Seed . His Malice notes him void of Grace , His Lying does show he's of that Raze ; For as the Serpent spoke at first , To Man of God , but made him Cursed . So does this Man speak Loyalty , That Law and Gospel would destroy ; He Serpentlike , at heels does bite , Of those whose Heads he cannot smite . He feeds on Dust , but gapes for Blood , A Man of note , but not for good ; You this vile person may compare , with worst that either were or are . For if with Cain you do begin , This Man surpasses him for since ; In wrath his Brother he did slay , This in cold Blood kills evesy day : His Vipers Tongue kills by his word , More than he can do with drawn Sword . When Lamech once a Man had kill'd , His Conscience was with horror fill'd ; Though this men Tongue be fully bent , To kill and slay the Innocent ; Yet he his Conscience does so fear , That he not God , nor Judgement fear . Read of the World that once was drown'd , and no such one was in it found ; Nay , search the New and you will see , Few with this Man compar'd can be . If cursed Ham did so Transgress , To see his Father's Nakedness ; How guilty is he that does Aim , To see and Trumpet all Men's Shame ; Yea , Loyal Peers , that Father's be , Their shame this Man does long to see ; And like to a Trumpet he does found , Those Guilty , that are Guiltless found Like Nimrods Dog with open Throat , This Hound hunt's fiercely for the Pope ; He loud does baul upon the Scent , Of Juries and of Parliament ; As though his hope's were , that he may , Have blood of such to be his Prey . For scoffing he's and Ishmael , With Esau can his Birthright fell ; We read of none so Active found , In Egypt , Israel to drowned ; As this home Satan does provoke , To be the Agent of the Pope . The Corah and Abiram were , Not with this Man for to compare ; For though the Earth this wretch does bear Hell will Erelong gape for him their ; He for the Pope would Isarael Curse , As Balaam would have done or worse , And longs for Altars to Divine , His familiars there to find ; But the mean time he'le advertise , To join with Romes Idolatrys , To pass the Cananites though he ; Of that Cursed Raze is Judg'd to be . To Doeg next we will have like , Who did at Priest and Profit strike ; So against Priest and Patron he , The Popes Informer longs to be . Sanballat and Tobia are , The meetest with him to Compare ? Who by Libels Void of reason , Speak that worship must be Treason . Like Hammon he does long to slay , The Jews , and to hang Mordicay ; Though Justice may in time him bring , on his own Gallows for to swing . The Rulers Could not in Christs day , Find such a one him to betray ; Till Satan had in Judas god , As into this to sham the Plot . Nay Judas like , give him his endue , He'l Crucify , the Lord a new ; And Judas like at last may burst , Yea , hang himself and be Accursed . The Coppor Smith did not that wrong , As this man hath done with his tongue ; Elimus like his Cursed mouth , Would Rulers fain pervert for truth He like Demetryus does cry , For Remes Diana to be high . As if the world must still adore , That old face Ill looked Scarlet Whore ; Before we do Conclude 'tis fit , To show whare Nat hath god this wit . It is Infus'd to him from hell , By Satan that does in him dwell Who of a Serpent did make Use , At first men fallen to Introduce But a more Subtle way does take , And use of this Vile man does make ? By which the Devils Priests and he , Are grown so Intimate to be ; That by the most he's known full well , To be the devils Oracle ; And would have all men for to be , Slaves to the Pope as well as he . But in that Slavery we'll him leave , The Devils Wages to receive And unto his perpetual shame The Devils Ass let be his name - London Printed for J. Jones . 1682. H : 135833 A PILLAR Erected to the Memorial of Popish-Nat , showing how unlike the Best , and how like the worst of Men he is . IN Holy-Record we do read , Of a Nathaniel indeed ; A Man of Christ gave that Style , And Israelite in whom's no Guile . Our day yields a Nathaniel , A Popish-Brat , Spew'd out of Hell ; A Man that is in very Deed , The offspring of the Serpents Seed . His Malice notes him void of Grace , His Lying does show he's of that Raze ; For as the Serpent spoke at first , To Man of God , but made him Cursed . So does this Man speak Loyalty , That Law and Gospel would destroy ; He Serpentlike , at heels does bite , Of those whose Heads he cannot smite . He feeds on Dust , but gapes for Blood , A Man of note , but not for good ; You this vile person may compare , with worst that either were or are . For if with Cain you do begin , This Man surpasses him for since ; In wrath his Brother he did slay , This in cold Blood kills evesy day : His Vipers Tongue kills by his word , More than he can do with drawn Sword . When Lamech once a Man had kill'd , His Conscience was with horror fill'd ; Though this men Tongue be fully bent , To kill and slay the Innocent ; Yet he his Conscience does so fear , That he not God , nor Judgement fear . Read of the World that once was drown'd , and no such one was in it found ; Nay , search the New and you will see , Few with this Man compar'd can be . If cursed Ham did so Transgress , To see his Father's Nakedness ; How guilty is he that does Aim , To see and Trumpet all Men's Shame ; Yea , Loyal Peers , that Father's be , Their shame this Man does long to see ; And like to a Trumpet he does found , Those Guilty , that are Guiltless found Like Nimrods Dog with open Throat , This Hound hunt's fiercely for the Pope ; He loud does baul upon the Scent , Of Juries and of Parliament ; As though his hope's were , that he may , Have blood of such to be his Prey . For scoffing he's and Ishmael , With Esau can his Birthright fell ; We read of none so Active found , In Egypt , Israel to drowned ; As this home Satan does provoke , To be the Agent of the Pope . The Corah and Abiram were , Not with this Man for to compare ; For though the Earth this wretch does bear Hell will Erelong gape for him their ; He for the Pope would Isarael Curse , As Balaam would have done or worse , And longs for Altars to Divine , His familiars there to find ; But the mean time he'le advertise , To join with Romes Idolatrys , To pass the Cananites though he ; Of that Cursed Raze is Judg'd to be . To Doeg next we will have like , Who did at Priest and Profit strike ; So against Priest and Patron he , The Popes Informer longs to be . Sanballat and Tobia are , The meetest with him to Compare ? Who by Libels Void of reason , Speak that worship must be Treason . Like Hammon he does long to slay , The Jews , and to hang Mordicay ; Though Justice may in time him bring , on his own Gallows for to swing . The Rulers Could not in Christs day , Find such a one him to betray ; Till Satan had in Judas god , As into this to sham the Plot . Nay Judas like , give him his endue , He'l Crucify , the Lord a new ; And Judas like at last may burst , Yea , hang himself and be Accursed . The Coppor Smith did not that wrong , As this man hath done with his tongue ; Elimus like his Cursed mouth , Would Rulers fain pervert for truth He like Demetryus does cry , For Remes Diana to be high . As if the world must still adore , That old face Ill looked Scarlet Whore ; Before we do Conclude 'tis fit , To show whare Nat hath god this wit . It is Infus'd to him from hell , By Satan that does in him dwell Who of a Serpent did make Use , At first men fallen to Introduce But a more Subtle way does take , And use of this Vile man does make ? By which the Devils Priests and he , Are grown so Intimate to be ; That by the most he's known full well , To be the devils Oracle ; And would have all men for to be , Slaves to the Pope as well as he . But in that Slavery we'll him leave , The Devils Wages to receive And unto his perpetual shame The Devils Ass let be his name - London Printed for J. Jones . 1682. H : 135833 A PILLAR Erected to the Memorial of Popish-Nat , showing how unlike the Best , and how like the worst of Men he is . IN Holy-Record we do read , Of a Nathaniel indeed ; A Man of Christ gave that Style , And Israelite in whom's no Guile . Our day yields a Nathaniel , A Popish-Brat , Spew'd out of Hell ; A Man that is in very Deed , The offspring of the Serpents Seed . His Malice notes him void of Grace , His Lying does show he's of that Raze ; For as the Serpent spoke at first , To Man of God , but made him Cursed . So does this Man speak Loyalty , That Law and Gospel would destroy ; He Serpentlike , at heels does bite , Of those whose Heads he cannot smite . He feeds on Dust , but gapes for Blood , A Man of note , but not for good ; You this vile person may compare , with worst that either were or are . For if with Cain you do begin , This Man surpasses him for since ; In wrath his Brother he did slay , This in cold Blood kills evesy day : His Vipers Tongue kills by his word , More than he can do with drawn Sword . When Lamech once a Man had kill'd , His Conscience was with horror fill'd ; Though this men Tongue be fully bent , To kill and slay the Innocent ; Yet he his Conscience does so fear , That he not God , nor Judgement fear . Read of the World that once was drown'd , and no such one was in it found ; Nay , search the New and you will see , Few with this Man compar'd can be . If cursed Ham did so Transgress , To see his Father's Nakedness ; How guilty is he that does Aim , To see and Trumpet all Men's Shame ; Yea , Loyal Peers , that Father's be , Their shame this Man does long to see ; And like to a Trumpet he does found , Those Guilty , that are Guiltless found Like Nimrods Dog with open Throat , This Hound hunt's fiercely for the Pope ; He loud does baul upon the Scent , Of Juries and of Parliament ; As though his hope's were , that he may , Have blood of such to be his Prey . For scoffing he's and Ishmael , With Esau can his Birthright fell ; We read of none so Active found , In Egypt , Israel to drowned ; As this home Satan does provoke , To be the Agent of the Pope . The Corah and Abiram were , Not with this Man for to compare ; For though the Earth this wretch does bear Hell will Erelong gape for him their ; He for the Pope would Isarael Curse , As Balaam would have done or worse , And longs for Altars to Divine , His familiars there to find ; But the mean time he'le advertise , To join with Romes Idolatrys , To pass the Cananites though he ; Of that Cursed Raze is Judg'd to be . To Doeg next we will have like , Who did at Priest and Profit strike ; So against Priest and Patron he , The Popes Informer longs to be . Sanballat and Tobia are , The meetest with him to Compare ? Who by Libels Void of reason , Speak that worship must be Treason . Like Hammon he does long to slay , The Jews , and to hang Mordicay ; Though Justice may in time him bring , on his own Gallows for to swing . The Rulers Could not in Christs day , Find such a one him to betray ; Till Satan had in Judas god , As into this to sham the Plot . Nay Judas like , give him his endue , He'l Crucify , the Lord a new ; And Judas like at last may burst , Yea , hang himself and be Accursed . The Coppor Smith did not that wrong , As this man hath done with his tongue ; Elimus like his Cursed mouth , Would Rulers fain pervert for truth He like Demetryus does cry , For Remes Diana to be high . As if the world must still adore , That old face Ill looked Scarlet Whore ; Before we do Conclude 'tis fit , To show whare Nat hath god this wit . It is Infus'd to him from hell , By Satan that does in him dwell Who of a Serpent did make Use , At first men fallen to Introduce But a more Subtle way does take , And use of this Vile man does make ? By which the Devils Priests and he , Are grown so Intimate to be ; That by the most he's known full well , To be the devils Oracle ; And would have all men for to be , Slaves to the Pope as well as he . But in that Slavery we'll him leave , The Devils Wages to receive And unto his perpetual shame The Devils Ass let be his name - London Printed for J. Jones . 1682. H : 135833 A PILLAR Erected to the Memorial of Popish-Nat , showing how unlike the Best , and how like the worst of Men he is . IN Holy-Record we do read , Of a Nathaniel indeed ; A Man of Christ gave that Style , And Israelite in whom's no Guile . Our day yields a Nathaniel , A Popish-Brat , Spew'd out of Hell ; A Man that is in very Deed , The offspring of the Serpents Seed . His Malice notes him void of Grace , His Lying does show he's of that Raze ; For as the Serpent spoke at first , To Man of God , but made him Cursed . So does this Man speak Loyalty , That Law and Gospel would destroy ; He Serpentlike , at heels does bite , Of those whose Heads he cannot smite . He feeds on Dust , but gapes for Blood , A Man of note , but not for good ; You this vile person may compare , with worst that either were or are . For if with Cain you do begin , This Man surpasses him for since ; In wrath his Brother he did slay , This in cold Blood kills evesy day : His Vipers Tongue kills by his word , More than he can do with drawn Sword . When Lamech once a Man had kill'd , His Conscience was with horror fill'd ; Though this men Tongue be fully bent , To kill and slay the Innocent ; Yet he his Conscience does so fear , That he not God , nor Judgement fear . Read of the World that once was drown'd , and no such one was in it found ; Nay , search the New and you will see , Few with this Man compar'd can be . If cursed Ham did so Transgress , To see his Father's Nakedness ; How guilty is he that does Aim , To see and Trumpet all Men's Shame ; Yea , Loyal Peers , that Father's be , Their shame this Man does long to see ; And like to a Trumpet he does found , Those Guilty , that are Guiltless found Like Nimrods Dog with open Throat , This Hound hunt's fiercely for the Pope ; He loud does baul upon the Scent , Of Juries and of Parliament ; As though his hope's were , that he may , Have blood of such to be his Prey . For scoffing he's and Ishmael , With Esau can his Birthright fell ; We read of none so Active found , In Egypt , Israel to drowned ; As this home Satan does provoke , To be the Agent of the Pope . The Corah and Abiram were , Not with this Man for to compare ; For though the Earth this wretch does bear Hell will Erelong gape for him their ; He for the Pope would Isarael Curse , As Balaam would have done or worse , And longs for Altars to Divine , His familiars there to find ; But the mean time he'le advertise , To join with Romes Idolatrys , To pass the Cananites though he ; Of that Cursed Raze is Judg'd to be . To Doeg next we will have like , Who did at Priest and Profit strike ; So against Priest and Patron he , The Popes Informer longs to be . Sanballat and Tobia are , The meetest with him to Compare ? Who by Libels Void of reason , Speak that worship must be Treason . Like Hammon he does long to slay , The Jews , and to hang Mordicay ; Though Justice may in time him bring , on his own Gallows for to swing . The Rulers Could not in Christs day , Find such a one him to betray ; Till Satan had in Judas god , As into this to sham the Plot . Nay Judas like , give him his endue , He'l Crucify , the Lord a new ; And Judas like at last may burst , Yea , hang himself and be Accursed . The Coppor Smith did not that wrong , As this man hath done with his tongue ; Elimus like his Cursed mouth , Would Rulers fain pervert for truth He like Demetryus does cry , For Remes Diana to be high . As if the world must still adore , That old face Ill looked Scarlet Whore ; Before we do Conclude 'tis fit , To show whare Nat hath god this wit . It is Infus'd to him from hell , By Satan that does in him dwell Who of a Serpent did make Use , At first men fallen to Introduce But a more Subtle way does take , And use of this Vile man does make ? By which the Devils Priests and he , Are grown so Intimate to be ; That by the most he's known full well , To be the devils Oracle ; And would have all men for to be , Slaves to the Pope as well as he . But in that Slavery we'll him leave , The Devils Wages to receive And unto his perpetual shame The Devils Ass let be his name - London Printed for J. Jones . 1682. 