H : 135848 THE Riddle of the Roundhead . And Excellent New BALLAD . To the Tune of , Now at last the Riddle is Expounded . 1. NOw at last the Riddle is Expounded , Which so long the Nation has Confounded ; For the Roundhead Begins the Game again , Which so well they play'd in Forty four , Now with greater hope ; For the fine Sham-Plots will ne'er give over , Till they piously have routed King and Pope . 2. Anthony that Worm of Reformation , Who of Commonwealths has laid Foundation , Which the Nation So hotly does pursue ; Let him be rewarded in the Tower , For his Merits due : By that busy Plotting head laid lower , We may perhaps escape what might ensue . 3. Perkin makes fine Legs to th' shouting Rabble , Who to make him King he thinks are able ; But the Bauble Is only shew'd for use : The silly Idiot serves but for a Tool still , For Knaves to work their Feats , And will remain a dull mistaken Fool still , For all their damn'd Cabals and Wapping Treats . 4. The most zealous Parliament devoted , For the Public good devoutly Voted , Pray note it , That the Duke must ne'er be King ; And like honest faithful Loyal Subject's , His Majesty implore , To sign their pious and Religious Projects , Or else the threaten'd King must Reign no more . 5. The renowned Work of Reformation , To be carry'd on throughout the Nation , In a passion They Vote the Canons down ; Acts and Statutes all must be confounded , Law and Justice too , To make way for the proud Rebellious Roundhead , That they once more the Nation may undo . 6. Lords and Bishops both are useless Voted , And the Factious Crew who gravely Plotted , Are noted For Lords and Commons too : Whigs and Brumighams with Shams and Stories , Are true Protestants , And Protestants are Masquerades and Tories , The Modern Reformation of the Saints . 7. Old Queen Bess that made the best Indentures , Good King Jemmy too against Dissenters , He ventures To turn them out of doors ; To take in Quakers , Puritans and Ranters , The Parliament implores , To built a Kirk of Whigs and Covenanters , And make a Lawful Raze of Sons of Whores . 8. Rowley now with Wisdom and grave Reason , To prevent the swift approaching Treason , In season Put a perjod to their strife ; In Oxford all their Stratagems confounded , The Roguish Joiner too : And may no better Fate attend the Roundhead , That wou'd the Church and Monarchy subdue . 9. Oxford Loyal Youths who scorn to Sham us , With a perjur'd Bill of Ignoramus , Or name us For Loyal , Traitors known ; Soon found a flaw i'th' bottom of the Joiner , By Justice and the Laws , Of Church and Commonwealth and Underminer , Who fell a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . 10. Now for shame you Zealots be confounded , Boast no more Allegiance , since a Roundhead Is grounded Upon the Holy Sham : How dare you talk of Loyalty , a Hater Of Justice , King and Laws , Since the Whiggish Protestant is found a Traitor , And die a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . LONDON : Printed by N. Thompson . 1681. H : 135848 THE Riddle of the Roundhead . And Excellent New BALLAD . To the Tune of , Now at last the Riddle is Expounded . 1. NOw at last the Riddle is Expounded , Which so long the Nation has Confounded ; For the Roundhead Begins the Game again , Which so well they play'd in Forty four , Now with greater hope ; For the fine Sham-Plots will ne'er give over , Till they piously have routed King and Pope . 2. Anthony that Worm of Reformation , Who of Commonwealths has laid Foundation , Which the Nation So hotly does pursue ; Let him be rewarded in the Tower , For his Merits due : By that busy Plotting head laid lower , We may perhaps escape what might ensue . 3. Perkin makes fine Legs to th' shouting Rabble , Who to make him King he thinks are able ; But the Bauble Is only shew'd for use : The silly Idiot serves but for a Tool still , For Knaves to work their Feats , And will remain a dull mistaken Fool still , For all their damn'd Cabals and Wapping Treats . 4. The most zealous Parliament devoted , For the Public good devoutly Voted , Pray note it , That the Duke must ne'er be King ; And like honest faithful Loyal Subject's , His Majesty implore , To sign their pious and Religious Projects , Or else the threaten'd King must Reign no more . 5. The renowned Work of Reformation , To be carry'd on throughout the Nation , In a passion They Vote the Canons down ; Acts and Statutes all must be confounded , Law and Justice too , To make way for the proud Rebellious Roundhead , That they once more the Nation may undo . 6. Lords and Bishops both are useless Voted , And the Factious Crew who gravely Plotted , Are noted For Lords and Commons too : Whigs and Brumighams with Shams and Stories , Are true Protestants , And Protestants are Masquerades and Tories , The Modern Reformation of the Saints . 7. Old Queen Bess that made the best Indentures , Good King Jemmy too against Dissenters , He ventures To turn them out of doors ; To take in Quakers , Puritans and Ranters , The Parliament implores , To built a Kirk of Whigs and Covenanters , And make a Lawful Raze of Sons of Whores . 8. Rowley now with Wisdom and grave Reason , To prevent the swift approaching Treason , In season Put a perjod to their strife ; In Oxford all their Stratagems confounded , The Roguish Joiner too : And may no better Fate attend the Roundhead , That wou'd the Church and Monarchy subdue . 9. Oxford Loyal Youths who scorn to Sham us , With a perjur'd Bill of Ignoramus , Or name us For Loyal , Traitors known ; Soon found a flaw i'th' bottom of the Joiner , By Justice and the Laws , Of Church and Commonwealth and Underminer , Who fell a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . 10. Now for shame you Zealots be confounded , Boast no more Allegiance , since a Roundhead Is grounded Upon the Holy Sham : How dare you talk of Loyalty , a Hater Of Justice , King and Laws , Since the Whiggish Protestant is found a Traitor , And die a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . LONDON : Printed by N. Thompson . 1681. H : 135848 THE Riddle of the Roundhead . And Excellent New BALLAD . To the Tune of , Now at last the Riddle is Expounded . 1. NOw at last the Riddle is Expounded , Which so long the Nation has Confounded ; For the Roundhead Begins the Game again , Which so well they play'd in Forty four , Now with greater hope ; For the fine Sham-Plots will ne'er give over , Till they piously have routed King and Pope . 2. Anthony that Worm of Reformation , Who of Commonwealths has laid Foundation , Which the Nation So hotly does pursue ; Let him be rewarded in the Tower , For his Merits due : By that busy Plotting head laid lower , We may perhaps escape what might ensue . 3. Perkin makes fine Legs to th' shouting Rabble , Who to make him King he thinks are able ; But the Bauble Is only shew'd for use : The silly Idiot serves but for a Tool still , For Knaves to work their Feats , And will remain a dull mistaken Fool still , For all their damn'd Cabals and Wapping Treats . 4. The most zealous Parliament devoted , For the Public good devoutly Voted , Pray note it , That the Duke must ne'er be King ; And like honest faithful Loyal Subject's , His Majesty implore , To sign their pious and Religious Projects , Or else the threaten'd King must Reign no more . 5. The renowned Work of Reformation , To be carry'd on throughout the Nation , In a passion They Vote the Canons down ; Acts and Statutes all must be confounded , Law and Justice too , To make way for the proud Rebellious Roundhead , That they once more the Nation may undo . 6. Lords and Bishops both are useless Voted , And the Factious Crew who gravely Plotted , Are noted For Lords and Commons too : Whigs and Brumighams with Shams and Stories , Are true Protestants , And Protestants are Masquerades and Tories , The Modern Reformation of the Saints . 7. Old Queen Bess that made the best Indentures , Good King Jemmy too against Dissenters , He ventures To turn them out of doors ; To take in Quakers , Puritans and Ranters , The Parliament implores , To built a Kirk of Whigs and Covenanters , And make a Lawful Raze of Sons of Whores . 8. Rowley now with Wisdom and grave Reason , To prevent the swift approaching Treason , In season Put a perjod to their strife ; In Oxford all their Stratagems confounded , The Roguish Joiner too : And may no better Fate attend the Roundhead , That wou'd the Church and Monarchy subdue . 9. Oxford Loyal Youths who scorn to Sham us , With a perjur'd Bill of Ignoramus , Or name us For Loyal , Traitors known ; Soon found a flaw i'th' bottom of the Joiner , By Justice and the Laws , Of Church and Commonwealth and Underminer , Who fell a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . 10. Now for shame you Zealots be confounded , Boast no more Allegiance , since a Roundhead Is grounded Upon the Holy Sham : How dare you talk of Loyalty , a Hater Of Justice , King and Laws , Since the Whiggish Protestant is found a Traitor , And die a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . LONDON : Printed by N. Thompson . 1681. H : 135848 THE Riddle of the Roundhead . And Excellent New BALLAD . To the Tune of , Now at last the Riddle is Expounded . 1. NOw at last the Riddle is Expounded , Which so long the Nation has Confounded ; For the Roundhead Begins the Game again , Which so well they play'd in Forty four , Now with greater hope ; For the fine Sham-Plots will ne'er give over , Till they piously have routed King and Pope . 2. Anthony that Worm of Reformation , Who of Commonwealths has laid Foundation , Which the Nation So hotly does pursue ; Let him be rewarded in the Tower , For his Merits due : By that busy Plotting head laid lower , We may perhaps escape what might ensue . 3. Perkin makes fine Legs to th' shouting Rabble , Who to make him King he thinks are able ; But the Bauble Is only shew'd for use : The silly Idiot serves but for a Tool still , For Knaves to work their Feats , And will remain a dull mistaken Fool still , For all their damn'd Cabals and Wapping Treats . 4. The most zealous Parliament devoted , For the Public good devoutly Voted , Pray note it , That the Duke must ne'er be King ; And like honest faithful Loyal Subject's , His Majesty implore , To sign their pious and Religious Projects , Or else the threaten'd King must Reign no more . 5. The renowned Work of Reformation , To be carry'd on throughout the Nation , In a passion They Vote the Canons down ; Acts and Statutes all must be confounded , Law and Justice too , To make way for the proud Rebellious Roundhead , That they once more the Nation may undo . 6. Lords and Bishops both are useless Voted , And the Factious Crew who gravely Plotted , Are noted For Lords and Commons too : Whigs and Brumighams with Shams and Stories , Are true Protestants , And Protestants are Masquerades and Tories , The Modern Reformation of the Saints . 7. Old Queen Bess that made the best Indentures , Good King Jemmy too against Dissenters , He ventures To turn them out of doors ; To take in Quakers , Puritans and Ranters , The Parliament implores , To built a Kirk of Whigs and Covenanters , And make a Lawful Raze of Sons of Whores . 8. Rowley now with Wisdom and grave Reason , To prevent the swift approaching Treason , In season Put a perjod to their strife ; In Oxford all their Stratagems confounded , The Roguish Joiner too : And may no better Fate attend the Roundhead , That wou'd the Church and Monarchy subdue . 9. Oxford Loyal Youths who scorn to Sham us , With a perjur'd Bill of Ignoramus , Or name us For Loyal , Traitors known ; Soon found a flaw i'th' bottom of the Joiner , By Justice and the Laws , Of Church and Commonwealth and Underminer , Who fell a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . 10. Now for shame you Zealots be confounded , Boast no more Allegiance , since a Roundhead Is grounded Upon the Holy Sham : How dare you talk of Loyalty , a Hater Of Justice , King and Laws , Since the Whiggish Protestant is found a Traitor , And die a Martyr in the Good Old Cause . LONDON : Printed by N. Thompson . 1681. 