H : 135844 AND Excellent New Ballad BETWEEN Tom the Tory , and Toney the Whig , To the Tune of , Shittle-Come-Shite , etc GOod People all , both Great and Small , Come listen to my Story ; There was a Fray , the other Day , Between a Whig , and Tory. For all their Distance , now they met , Joyn'd in the Stocks together ; You may be sure , 'twas for no good , That both of them came thither . The Tory's Name was Lashing Tom ; The Whig was called Toney ; And yet the Urchin , most Men say , Wants neither Wit nor Money . At first they surly were , and grim , And stiff as as any Quaker ; They look't much like in Hangings old , The Panther , and the Baker . A while they only huff't and puff't At one another , growling : At last the Curs did spend their Mouths , And thus they fell a Howling . Tom. ( Quoth Tom ) to me , thy Company Is now as sweet as Honey : 'Tis the first Day , I e're could say , To me thou'rt welcome Toney . Since in this Wooden-Cage we meet , Let's Con our Notes together : And prithee Toney tell me how The Devil has brought thee hither . Toney . ( quoth Toney ) spare thy Compliment , Thou soon shalt be Confounded : Has thou forgotten , thou vapouring Sot , By whom thou wer't Impounded . We try'd a Better , and a Worse , I fairly thee did Master : I am not Conquer'd , but Betray'd By Rogues , to this Disaster . Tom. Those Rogues ( quo Tom ) thy Creatures were , Unjust is thy Complaining ; Since 'to this Pen , thou'rt hunted in By Whelps of thy own Training . Thy Wickedness , turn'd thee to Beast , And hither thee did hurry : And in this Guise , Acteon-wise , Thy Hell-Hounds thee shall worry . Toney . Thou wants not Wickedness , but Wit , To turn it to thy Profi Who but a Sot , would hatch a Plot , And then make nothing of it ? 'Twas I was fain to Rear thy Barn , And bring it to Perfection : I made the Frighted Nation sue To me , for my Protection . Tom. I know ( quoth Tom ) thou lov'st of old , The Name of a Protector : But now with all thy Might and Slight , Thou art a Baffl'd Hector . With all thy Treats , and all thy Cheats , Still thy Design does falter : Thou'st god ( poor Wretch ) some Fees for Catch , And for thy self a Halter . Toney . Name not ( quoth Toney ) that paw thing , Till thou thy Heels Recover : For who can tell of Thee or Me , Who first will be Turn'd over ? Tom look to it , when Commons Fit , Left then I take thee Napping : I nothing fear , who am so near My Honest Friends of Wapping . What more they said , or what they did , Deserves not to be reckon'd : Then come away ; but first let's pray , God bless King Charles the Second . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R.H. in the Year , 1678. H : 135844 AND Excellent New Ballad BETWEEN Tom the Tory , and Toney the Whig , To the Tune of , Shittle-Come-Shite , etc GOod People all , both Great and Small , Come listen to my Story ; There was a Fray , the other Day , Between a Whig , and Tory. For all their Distance , now they met , Joyn'd in the Stocks together ; You may be sure , 'twas for no good , That both of them came thither . The Tory's Name was Lashing Tom ; The Whig was called Toney ; And yet the Urchin , most Men say , Wants neither Wit nor Money . At first they surly were , and grim , And stiff as as any Quaker ; They look't much like in Hangings old , The Panther , and the Baker . A while they only huff't and puff't At one another , growling : At last the Curs did spend their Mouths , And thus they fell a Howling . Tom. ( Quoth Tom ) to me , thy Company Is now as sweet as Honey : 'Tis the first Day , I e're could say , To me thou'rt welcome Toney . Since in this Wooden-Cage we meet , Let's Con our Notes together : And prithee Toney tell me how The Devil has brought thee hither . Toney . ( quoth Toney ) spare thy Compliment , Thou soon shalt be Confounded : Has thou forgotten , thou vapouring Sot , By whom thou wer't Impounded . We try'd a Better , and a Worse , I fairly thee did Master : I am not Conquer'd , but Betray'd By Rogues , to this Disaster . Tom. Those Rogues ( quo Tom ) thy Creatures were , Unjust is thy Complaining ; Since 'to this Pen , thou'rt hunted in By Whelps of thy own Training . Thy Wickedness , turn'd thee to Beast , And hither thee did hurry : And in this Guise , Acteon-wise , Thy Hell-Hounds thee shall worry . Toney . Thou wants not Wickedness , but Wit , To turn it to thy Profi Who but a Sot , would hatch a Plot , And then make nothing of it ? 'Twas I was fain to Rear thy Barn , And bring it to Perfection : I made the Frighted Nation sue To me , for my Protection . Tom. I know ( quoth Tom ) thou lov'st of old , The Name of a Protector : But now with all thy Might and Slight , Thou art a Baffl'd Hector . With all thy Treats , and all thy Cheats , Still thy Design does falter : Thou'st god ( poor Wretch ) some Fees for Catch , And for thy self a Halter . Toney . Name not ( quoth Toney ) that paw thing , Till thou thy Heels Recover : For who can tell of Thee or Me , Who first will be Turn'd over ? Tom look to it , when Commons Fit , Left then I take thee Napping : I nothing fear , who am so near My Honest Friends of Wapping . What more they said , or what they did , Deserves not to be reckon'd : Then come away ; but first let's pray , God bless King Charles the Second . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R.H. in the Year , 1678. H : 135844 AND Excellent New Ballad BETWEEN Tom the Tory , and Toney the Whig , To the Tune of , Shittle-Come-Shite , etc GOod People all , both Great and Small , Come listen to my Story ; There was a Fray , the other Day , Between a Whig , and Tory. For all their Distance , now they met , Joyn'd in the Stocks together ; You may be sure , 'twas for no good , That both of them came thither . The Tory's Name was Lashing Tom ; The Whig was called Toney ; And yet the Urchin , most Men say , Wants neither Wit nor Money . At first they surly were , and grim , And stiff as as any Quaker ; They look't much like in Hangings old , The Panther , and the Baker . A while they only huff't and puff't At one another , growling : At last the Curs did spend their Mouths , And thus they fell a Howling . Tom. ( Quoth Tom ) to me , thy Company Is now as sweet as Honey : 'Tis the first Day , I e're could say , To me thou'rt welcome Toney . Since in this Wooden-Cage we meet , Let's Con our Notes together : And prithee Toney tell me how The Devil has brought thee hither . Toney . ( quoth Toney ) spare thy Compliment , Thou soon shalt be Confounded : Has thou forgotten , thou vapouring Sot , By whom thou wer't Impounded . We try'd a Better , and a Worse , I fairly thee did Master : I am not Conquer'd , but Betray'd By Rogues , to this Disaster . Tom. Those Rogues ( quo Tom ) thy Creatures were , Unjust is thy Complaining ; Since 'to this Pen , thou'rt hunted in By Whelps of thy own Training . Thy Wickedness , turn'd thee to Beast , And hither thee did hurry : And in this Guise , Acteon-wise , Thy Hell-Hounds thee shall worry . Toney . Thou wants not Wickedness , but Wit , To turn it to thy Profi Who but a Sot , would hatch a Plot , And then make nothing of it ? 'Twas I was fain to Rear thy Barn , And bring it to Perfection : I made the Frighted Nation sue To me , for my Protection . Tom. I know ( quoth Tom ) thou lov'st of old , The Name of a Protector : But now with all thy Might and Slight , Thou art a Baffl'd Hector . With all thy Treats , and all thy Cheats , Still thy Design does falter : Thou'st god ( poor Wretch ) some Fees for Catch , And for thy self a Halter . Toney . Name not ( quoth Toney ) that paw thing , Till thou thy Heels Recover : For who can tell of Thee or Me , Who first will be Turn'd over ? Tom look to it , when Commons Fit , Left then I take thee Napping : I nothing fear , who am so near My Honest Friends of Wapping . What more they said , or what they did , Deserves not to be reckon'd : Then come away ; but first let's pray , God bless King Charles the Second . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R.H. in the Year , 1678. H : 135844 AND Excellent New Ballad BETWEEN Tom the Tory , and Toney the Whig , To the Tune of , Shittle-Come-Shite , etc GOod People all , both Great and Small , Come listen to my Story ; There was a Fray , the other Day , Between a Whig , and Tory. For all their Distance , now they met , Joyn'd in the Stocks together ; You may be sure , 'twas for no good , That both of them came thither . The Tory's Name was Lashing Tom ; The Whig was called Toney ; And yet the Urchin , most Men say , Wants neither Wit nor Money . At first they surly were , and grim , And stiff as as any Quaker ; They look't much like in Hangings old , The Panther , and the Baker . A while they only huff't and puff't At one another , growling : At last the Curs did spend their Mouths , And thus they fell a Howling . Tom. ( Quoth Tom ) to me , thy Company Is now as sweet as Honey : 'Tis the first Day , I e're could say , To me thou'rt welcome Toney . Since in this Wooden-Cage we meet , Let's Con our Notes together : And prithee Toney tell me how The Devil has brought thee hither . Toney . ( quoth Toney ) spare thy Compliment , Thou soon shalt be Confounded : Has thou forgotten , thou vapouring Sot , By whom thou wer't Impounded . We try'd a Better , and a Worse , I fairly thee did Master : I am not Conquer'd , but Betray'd By Rogues , to this Disaster . Tom. Those Rogues ( quo Tom ) thy Creatures were , Unjust is thy Complaining ; Since 'to this Pen , thou'rt hunted in By Whelps of thy own Training . Thy Wickedness , turn'd thee to Beast , And hither thee did hurry : And in this Guise , Acteon-wise , Thy Hell-Hounds thee shall worry . Toney . Thou wants not Wickedness , but Wit , To turn it to thy Profi Who but a Sot , would hatch a Plot , And then make nothing of it ? 'Twas I was fain to Rear thy Barn , And bring it to Perfection : I made the Frighted Nation sue To me , for my Protection . Tom. I know ( quoth Tom ) thou lov'st of old , The Name of a Protector : But now with all thy Might and Slight , Thou art a Baffl'd Hector . With all thy Treats , and all thy Cheats , Still thy Design does falter : Thou'st god ( poor Wretch ) some Fees for Catch , And for thy self a Halter . Toney . Name not ( quoth Toney ) that paw thing , Till thou thy Heels Recover : For who can tell of Thee or Me , Who first will be Turn'd over ? Tom look to it , when Commons Fit , Left then I take thee Napping : I nothing fear , who am so near My Honest Friends of Wapping . What more they said , or what they did , Deserves not to be reckon'd : Then come away ; but first let's pray , God bless King Charles the Second . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R.H. in the Year , 1678. 