H : 135847 The New Catholic Ballad . To the Tune of Chivy-chace . GOOD People all to me give ear , And mark my Story well , For such sad things were never herd As I to you shall tell : The Catholics in England have Of late so slandered been , And Slaughtered too , that I believe The like was never seen : For they are slandered with the truth , Of which the world does ring , And have been justly slaughtered too , A sad , and dismal thing . You know their Ancestors did plot To kill Elizabeth , And blow up James , and by their means Good Charles was put to death . But if they should deny that they This Murder did contrive , If I don't prove it then let them Me of my life deprive : For the Queen Mother's Confessor , Apostate Gough by name , One of the Rebels Troopers was ( To Papists not small shame . ) And when the fatal stroke , was struck Aloud he JUSTICE cry'd And then , with his drawn Sword , among The People he did ride . Du Moulin's Book this Murder too Does on the Papists charge , And faith if they dare question him He'll prove it more at large . Nor since our Gracious King's return Have Papists idle been , But in their Father's steps have trod , And shew'd their malice keen : For they these one and twenty years Against him have conspir'd , And all true English Protestants , And London they have fir'd . But he that faith there was no Plot , Nor is , can be no friend To truth , or King , or Parliaments ( What ere he may pretend : ) Nay he's a Traitor , and I will Show you the Reason why , Because he does in down right terms Give to the King the Lie . And likewise to four Parliaments , To Judges , Truth , and Laws , ( Which shows the loyalty of such As plead the Romish Cause ) For diverse Proclamations , And Speeches of the King , Both Houses Votes , and Judges sense Have clearly prov'd the thing . Yet still they are so impudent , As by their Traitorous Tools , To justify their innocence When ere they meet with Fools . But they at last have fool'd themselves , And their own Plot betray'd ; And so are taken in the Snare , Which they for us had laid : For they on Protestants have forg'd Such pitiful Sham-Plots , That they have prov'd their own thereby , And Shew'd themselves mere Sots ; So that the simplest Protestants Do now most plainly see That Papists , Traitors , Murderers And perjur'd Villains be . But wonder not to hear , or read Their wicked treacherous tricks ; For they are taught they should not keep Their Faith with Heretics ; Nay that the greatest sins , against Divine and Humane Laws , Are none , but meritorious acts , If done 't advance their Cause . Hence we may learn what to expect From such false bloody Knaves ; If they prevail we must be slave , Or Beggars live , and Slaves : Therefore good Lord preserve our King , And grant him long to Reign , That into England Popery May ne're be brought again . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for E. Rydal , 1681. H : 135847 The New Catholic Ballad . To the Tune of Chivy-chace . GOOD People all to me give ear , And mark my Story well , For such sad things were never herd As I to you shall tell : The Catholics in England have Of late so slandered been , And Slaughtered too , that I believe The like was never seen : For they are slandered with the truth , Of which the world does ring , And have been justly slaughtered too , A sad , and dismal thing . You know their Ancestors did plot To kill Elizabeth , And blow up James , and by their means Good Charles was put to death . But if they should deny that they This Murder did contrive , If I don't prove it then let them Me of my life deprive : For the Queen Mother's Confessor , Apostate Gough by name , One of the Rebels Troopers was ( To Papists not small shame . ) And when the fatal stroke , was struck Aloud he JUSTICE cry'd And then , with his drawn Sword , among The People he did ride . Du Moulin's Book this Murder too Does on the Papists charge , And faith if they dare question him He'll prove it more at large . Nor since our Gracious King's return Have Papists idle been , But in their Father's steps have trod , And shew'd their malice keen : For they these one and twenty years Against him have conspir'd , And all true English Protestants , And London they have fir'd . But he that faith there was no Plot , Nor is , can be no friend To truth , or King , or Parliaments ( What ere he may pretend : ) Nay he's a Traitor , and I will Show you the Reason why , Because he does in down right terms Give to the King the Lie . And likewise to four Parliaments , To Judges , Truth , and Laws , ( Which shows the loyalty of such As plead the Romish Cause ) For diverse Proclamations , And Speeches of the King , Both Houses Votes , and Judges sense Have clearly prov'd the thing . Yet still they are so impudent , As by their Traitorous Tools , To justify their innocence When ere they meet with Fools . But they at last have fool'd themselves , And their own Plot betray'd ; And so are taken in the Snare , Which they for us had laid : For they on Protestants have forg'd Such pitiful Sham-Plots , That they have prov'd their own thereby , And Shew'd themselves mere Sots ; So that the simplest Protestants Do now most plainly see That Papists , Traitors , Murderers And perjur'd Villains be . But wonder not to hear , or read Their wicked treacherous tricks ; For they are taught they should not keep Their Faith with Heretics ; Nay that the greatest sins , against Divine and Humane Laws , Are none , but meritorious acts , If done 't advance their Cause . Hence we may learn what to expect From such false bloody Knaves ; If they prevail we must be slave , Or Beggars live , and Slaves : Therefore good Lord preserve our King , And grant him long to Reign , That into England Popery May ne're be brought again . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for E. Rydal , 1681. H : 135847 The New Catholic Ballad . To the Tune of Chivy-chace . GOOD People all to me give ear , And mark my Story well , For such sad things were never herd As I to you shall tell : The Catholics in England have Of late so slandered been , And Slaughtered too , that I believe The like was never seen : For they are slandered with the truth , Of which the world does ring , And have been justly slaughtered too , A sad , and dismal thing . You know their Ancestors did plot To kill Elizabeth , And blow up James , and by their means Good Charles was put to death . But if they should deny that they This Murder did contrive , If I don't prove it then let them Me of my life deprive : For the Queen Mother's Confessor , Apostate Gough by name , One of the Rebels Troopers was ( To Papists not small shame . ) And when the fatal stroke , was struck Aloud he JUSTICE cry'd And then , with his drawn Sword , among The People he did ride . Du Moulin's Book this Murder too Does on the Papists charge , And faith if they dare question him He'll prove it more at large . Nor since our Gracious King's return Have Papists idle been , But in their Father's steps have trod , And shew'd their malice keen : For they these one and twenty years Against him have conspir'd , And all true English Protestants , And London they have fir'd . But he that faith there was no Plot , Nor is , can be no friend To truth , or King , or Parliaments ( What ere he may pretend : ) Nay he's a Traitor , and I will Show you the Reason why , Because he does in down right terms Give to the King the Lie . And likewise to four Parliaments , To Judges , Truth , and Laws , ( Which shows the loyalty of such As plead the Romish Cause ) For diverse Proclamations , And Speeches of the King , Both Houses Votes , and Judges sense Have clearly prov'd the thing . Yet still they are so impudent , As by their Traitorous Tools , To justify their innocence When ere they meet with Fools . But they at last have fool'd themselves , And their own Plot betray'd ; And so are taken in the Snare , Which they for us had laid : For they on Protestants have forg'd Such pitiful Sham-Plots , That they have prov'd their own thereby , And Shew'd themselves mere Sots ; So that the simplest Protestants Do now most plainly see That Papists , Traitors , Murderers And perjur'd Villains be . But wonder not to hear , or read Their wicked treacherous tricks ; For they are taught they should not keep Their Faith with Heretics ; Nay that the greatest sins , against Divine and Humane Laws , Are none , but meritorious acts , If done 't advance their Cause . Hence we may learn what to expect From such false bloody Knaves ; If they prevail we must be slave , Or Beggars live , and Slaves : Therefore good Lord preserve our King , And grant him long to Reign , That into England Popery May ne're be brought again . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for E. Rydal , 1681. H : 135847 The New Catholic Ballad . To the Tune of Chivy-chace . GOOD People all to me give ear , And mark my Story well , For such sad things were never herd As I to you shall tell : The Catholics in England have Of late so slandered been , And Slaughtered too , that I believe The like was never seen : For they are slandered with the truth , Of which the world does ring , And have been justly slaughtered too , A sad , and dismal thing . You know their Ancestors did plot To kill Elizabeth , And blow up James , and by their means Good Charles was put to death . But if they should deny that they This Murder did contrive , If I don't prove it then let them Me of my life deprive : For the Queen Mother's Confessor , Apostate Gough by name , One of the Rebels Troopers was ( To Papists not small shame . ) And when the fatal stroke , was struck Aloud he JUSTICE cry'd And then , with his drawn Sword , among The People he did ride . Du Moulin's Book this Murder too Does on the Papists charge , And faith if they dare question him He'll prove it more at large . Nor since our Gracious King's return Have Papists idle been , But in their Father's steps have trod , And shew'd their malice keen : For they these one and twenty years Against him have conspir'd , And all true English Protestants , And London they have fir'd . But he that faith there was no Plot , Nor is , can be no friend To truth , or King , or Parliaments ( What ere he may pretend : ) Nay he's a Traitor , and I will Show you the Reason why , Because he does in down right terms Give to the King the Lie . And likewise to four Parliaments , To Judges , Truth , and Laws , ( Which shows the loyalty of such As plead the Romish Cause ) For diverse Proclamations , And Speeches of the King , Both Houses Votes , and Judges sense Have clearly prov'd the thing . Yet still they are so impudent , As by their Traitorous Tools , To justify their innocence When ere they meet with Fools . But they at last have fool'd themselves , And their own Plot betray'd ; And so are taken in the Snare , Which they for us had laid : For they on Protestants have forg'd Such pitiful Sham-Plots , That they have prov'd their own thereby , And Shew'd themselves mere Sots ; So that the simplest Protestants Do now most plainly see That Papists , Traitors , Murderers And perjur'd Villains be . But wonder not to hear , or read Their wicked treacherous tricks ; For they are taught they should not keep Their Faith with Heretics ; Nay that the greatest sins , against Divine and Humane Laws , Are none , but meritorious acts , If done 't advance their Cause . Hence we may learn what to expect From such false bloody Knaves ; If they prevail we must be slave , Or Beggars live , and Slaves : Therefore good Lord preserve our King , And grant him long to Reign , That into England Popery May ne're be brought again . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for E. Rydal , 1681. 