H : 135866 Vive le ROY : Or LONDON's Joy . A New Song on the Instalment of the present Lord Mayor of LONDON . To the Tune of St. GEORGE for ENGLAND . YOu London Lads rejoice , and cast away your Care , Since with one Heart and Voice Sir John is chosen Mayor ; The Famous Sir John Moore , Lord Mayor of London Town , To your eternal Praise , shall stand a Subject of Renown , among your Famous Worthies who have been most esteem'd ; For Sir John Sir John your Honour hath redeem'd . Sir John He's for the Kings Right , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When with a Hidebound Mayor the Town was in distraction , Sir John leapt in the Chair , and cur'd the Hall of Faction : How to the People shew'd their Duty and Allegiance ; How to the Sacred King and Laws they pay their due Obedience . Sir George unto the People a Loyal Speech did give ; But Sir John Sir John your Honour did retrieve . Sir John is for Allegiance , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When thou wast lost , O London , in Faction and Sedition ; By Whigs and Zealots undone , while they were in Commission : When Treason , like old Nol's Brigade , did gallop through the Town , And Loyalty , a tired Jade , had cast her Rider down ; The Famous Sir George Jeffreys your Charter did maintain ; But Sir John Sir John restor'd thy Fame again . Sir John is for the Monarchy , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When th' Mayor , with Sheriffs mounted , sad Jealousies contriv'd , And all the Town run after , as if the Devil driv'd , Then Famous Sir John More thy Loyalty restor'd , And Noble Sir George Jeffreys , who did thy Acts record ; Sir George of all thy Heroes deserves the foremost place ; But Sir John Sir John hath god the Sword and Mace . Sir John he is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- would have the Court submit unto the City ; Whitehall stoop to the Change , and is not that a pity ? Sh. Be --- ( save Allegiance ) thinks nothing a Transgression : Sir Tom rails at the Lawful Prince , Sir Bob at the Succession : While still the brave Sir George does their Fury interpose ; But Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John He's for his Highness , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- for a Parliament , Sh. Be --- a Petition Instead of and Address , cram'd brimful of Sedition . Sir Tom he is for Liberty , against Prerogative : Sir Bob is for the Subject's Right , but will no Justice give : And brave Sir George does all their Famous Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He's for the Int'rest which Rebels would destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- he calls for Justice , and then the Wretch will sham us . Sh. Be --- he packs a Jury well versed in Ignoramus : Sir Tom wou'd hang the Tory , and let the Whig go free : Sir Bob wou'd have a Commonwealth , and cry down Monarchy . While still the brave Sir George does all their Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . And may such Loyal Mayors as honest Sheriffs find : Such Sheriffs find a Jury will to the King be kind ; And may the King live long , to rule such People here ; And may he such a Lord Mayor find , and Sheriffs every year ; That Traitors may receive the Justice of the Laws , While Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John is for the King still , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . LONDON , Printed for ALLEN BANKS . H : 135866 Vive le ROY : Or LONDON's Joy . A New Song on the Instalment of the present Lord Mayor of LONDON . To the Tune of St. GEORGE for ENGLAND . YOu London Lads rejoice , and cast away your Care , Since with one Heart and Voice Sir John is chosen Mayor ; The Famous Sir John Moore , Lord Mayor of London Town , To your eternal Praise , shall stand a Subject of Renown , among your Famous Worthies who have been most esteem'd ; For Sir John Sir John your Honour hath redeem'd . Sir John He's for the Kings Right , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When with a Hidebound Mayor the Town was in distraction , Sir John leapt in the Chair , and cur'd the Hall of Faction : How to the People shew'd their Duty and Allegiance ; How to the Sacred King and Laws they pay their due Obedience . Sir George unto the People a Loyal Speech did give ; But Sir John Sir John your Honour did retrieve . Sir John is for Allegiance , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When thou wast lost , O London , in Faction and Sedition ; By Whigs and Zealots undone , while they were in Commission : When Treason , like old Nol's Brigade , did gallop through the Town , And Loyalty , a tired Jade , had cast her Rider down ; The Famous Sir George Jeffreys your Charter did maintain ; But Sir John Sir John restor'd thy Fame again . Sir John is for the Monarchy , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When th' Mayor , with Sheriffs mounted , sad Jealousies contriv'd , And all the Town run after , as if the Devil driv'd , Then Famous Sir John More thy Loyalty restor'd , And Noble Sir George Jeffreys , who did thy Acts record ; Sir George of all thy Heroes deserves the foremost place ; But Sir John Sir John hath god the Sword and Mace . Sir John he is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- would have the Court submit unto the City ; Whitehall stoop to the Change , and is not that a pity ? Sh. Be --- ( save Allegiance ) thinks nothing a Transgression : Sir Tom rails at the Lawful Prince , Sir Bob at the Succession : While still the brave Sir George does their Fury interpose ; But Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John He's for his Highness , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- for a Parliament , Sh. Be --- a Petition Instead of and Address , cram'd brimful of Sedition . Sir Tom he is for Liberty , against Prerogative : Sir Bob is for the Subject's Right , but will no Justice give : And brave Sir George does all their Famous Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He's for the Int'rest which Rebels would destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- he calls for Justice , and then the Wretch will sham us . Sh. Be --- he packs a Jury well versed in Ignoramus : Sir Tom wou'd hang the Tory , and let the Whig go free : Sir Bob wou'd have a Commonwealth , and cry down Monarchy . While still the brave Sir George does all their Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . And may such Loyal Mayors as honest Sheriffs find : Such Sheriffs find a Jury will to the King be kind ; And may the King live long , to rule such People here ; And may he such a Lord Mayor find , and Sheriffs every year ; That Traitors may receive the Justice of the Laws , While Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John is for the King still , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . LONDON , Printed for ALLEN BANKS . H : 135866 Vive le ROY : Or LONDON's Joy . A New Song on the Instalment of the present Lord Mayor of LONDON . To the Tune of St. GEORGE for ENGLAND . YOu London Lads rejoice , and cast away your Care , Since with one Heart and Voice Sir John is chosen Mayor ; The Famous Sir John Moore , Lord Mayor of London Town , To your eternal Praise , shall stand a Subject of Renown , among your Famous Worthies who have been most esteem'd ; For Sir John Sir John your Honour hath redeem'd . Sir John He's for the Kings Right , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When with a Hidebound Mayor the Town was in distraction , Sir John leapt in the Chair , and cur'd the Hall of Faction : How to the People shew'd their Duty and Allegiance ; How to the Sacred King and Laws they pay their due Obedience . Sir George unto the People a Loyal Speech did give ; But Sir John Sir John your Honour did retrieve . Sir John is for Allegiance , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When thou wast lost , O London , in Faction and Sedition ; By Whigs and Zealots undone , while they were in Commission : When Treason , like old Nol's Brigade , did gallop through the Town , And Loyalty , a tired Jade , had cast her Rider down ; The Famous Sir George Jeffreys your Charter did maintain ; But Sir John Sir John restor'd thy Fame again . Sir John is for the Monarchy , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When th' Mayor , with Sheriffs mounted , sad Jealousies contriv'd , And all the Town run after , as if the Devil driv'd , Then Famous Sir John More thy Loyalty restor'd , And Noble Sir George Jeffreys , who did thy Acts record ; Sir George of all thy Heroes deserves the foremost place ; But Sir John Sir John hath god the Sword and Mace . Sir John he is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- would have the Court submit unto the City ; Whitehall stoop to the Change , and is not that a pity ? Sh. Be --- ( save Allegiance ) thinks nothing a Transgression : Sir Tom rails at the Lawful Prince , Sir Bob at the Succession : While still the brave Sir George does their Fury interpose ; But Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John He's for his Highness , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- for a Parliament , Sh. Be --- a Petition Instead of and Address , cram'd brimful of Sedition . Sir Tom he is for Liberty , against Prerogative : Sir Bob is for the Subject's Right , but will no Justice give : And brave Sir George does all their Famous Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He's for the Int'rest which Rebels would destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- he calls for Justice , and then the Wretch will sham us . Sh. Be --- he packs a Jury well versed in Ignoramus : Sir Tom wou'd hang the Tory , and let the Whig go free : Sir Bob wou'd have a Commonwealth , and cry down Monarchy . While still the brave Sir George does all their Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . And may such Loyal Mayors as honest Sheriffs find : Such Sheriffs find a Jury will to the King be kind ; And may the King live long , to rule such People here ; And may he such a Lord Mayor find , and Sheriffs every year ; That Traitors may receive the Justice of the Laws , While Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John is for the King still , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . LONDON , Printed for ALLEN BANKS . H : 135866 Vive le ROY : Or LONDON's Joy . A New Song on the Instalment of the present Lord Mayor of LONDON . To the Tune of St. GEORGE for ENGLAND . YOu London Lads rejoice , and cast away your Care , Since with one Heart and Voice Sir John is chosen Mayor ; The Famous Sir John Moore , Lord Mayor of London Town , To your eternal Praise , shall stand a Subject of Renown , among your Famous Worthies who have been most esteem'd ; For Sir John Sir John your Honour hath redeem'd . Sir John He's for the Kings Right , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When with a Hidebound Mayor the Town was in distraction , Sir John leapt in the Chair , and cur'd the Hall of Faction : How to the People shew'd their Duty and Allegiance ; How to the Sacred King and Laws they pay their due Obedience . Sir George unto the People a Loyal Speech did give ; But Sir John Sir John your Honour did retrieve . Sir John is for Allegiance , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When thou wast lost , O London , in Faction and Sedition ; By Whigs and Zealots undone , while they were in Commission : When Treason , like old Nol's Brigade , did gallop through the Town , And Loyalty , a tired Jade , had cast her Rider down ; The Famous Sir George Jeffreys your Charter did maintain ; But Sir John Sir John restor'd thy Fame again . Sir John is for the Monarchy , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . When th' Mayor , with Sheriffs mounted , sad Jealousies contriv'd , And all the Town run after , as if the Devil driv'd , Then Famous Sir John More thy Loyalty restor'd , And Noble Sir George Jeffreys , who did thy Acts record ; Sir George of all thy Heroes deserves the foremost place ; But Sir John Sir John hath god the Sword and Mace . Sir John he is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- would have the Court submit unto the City ; Whitehall stoop to the Change , and is not that a pity ? Sh. Be --- ( save Allegiance ) thinks nothing a Transgression : Sir Tom rails at the Lawful Prince , Sir Bob at the Succession : While still the brave Sir George does their Fury interpose ; But Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John He's for his Highness , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- for a Parliament , Sh. Be --- a Petition Instead of and Address , cram'd brimful of Sedition . Sir Tom he is for Liberty , against Prerogative : Sir Bob is for the Subject's Right , but will no Justice give : And brave Sir George does all their Famous Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He's for the Int'rest which Rebels would destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . Sir Pa --- he calls for Justice , and then the Wretch will sham us . Sh. Be --- he packs a Jury well versed in Ignoramus : Sir Tom wou'd hang the Tory , and let the Whig go free : Sir Bob wou'd have a Commonwealth , and cry down Monarchy . While still the brave Sir George does all their Deeds record ; But Sir John Sir John your Loyalty restor'd . Sir John He is for Justice , which Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . And may such Loyal Mayors as honest Sheriffs find : Such Sheriffs find a Jury will to the King be kind ; And may the King live long , to rule such People here ; And may he such a Lord Mayor find , and Sheriffs every year ; That Traitors may receive the Justice of the Laws , While Sir John Sir John maintains the Royal Cause . Sir John is for the King still , whom Rebels wou'd destroy . Vive , Vive , Vive le Roy . LONDON , Printed for ALLEN BANKS . 