H : 135856 And Excellent New BALLAD Of the PLOTTING HEAD . To the Tune of , How Unhappy is Phillis in Love . Or , Let Oliver now be forgotten , etc YOu Presbyters now Relent , For your Plotting is all in vain , Since College does now Repent , And hourly does complain ; That all your contrivance is nothing , And M --- yet proves a Slowthing : Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Thy Policy now is grown quite out of Date . Now all the Caball Men of Fortune , With Toney , the Head of the Crew Who the People did often Importune , To Swear things that never were true : Oh! this is the Fox of the Nation , Who made your Sedition a Fashion , Ah little Pate ! Ill was thy Fate ! For to bring thy self to this wretched Estate . And now where's thy Policy Toney , The Nation so much did Admire , Ha'st lost both thy Wit , and thy Money Since Friends with thy Fortune Expire ; Had not Harris spoke truth at's last Hour , Thou ne're hadst been sent to the Tower , Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Wilt thou have thy Head fixed fast on a Gate . Poor Stafford indeed you outwitted , And thought to have done all the rest , But now your Quaint Policy's fitted And you left to make up the jest ; Except you Invoke your Friend Tory , To turn , and to Swear a New Story : Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Alas must thy Head now be fix't on a Gate ? The Zealots that live in the City , Are griev'd , for to see your strange Fate ; Though yet they your Fortune may pity , They'l find out your Treasons too late : For the Devil you faithfully served , Has left you , to what you deserved Ah little Pate ! Damn'd little Pate ! To cause this distraction and Curse in the Stat [ e . ] Like Lucifer swel'd with Ambition , And tossed from a Heavenly Seat ; So you from a wretched Condition , Was by your King's Favour , made Great But like the worst of all Creatures , Whose Treacherie's seen in his Features ; For you little Pate , To bring in a State , Would venture your Head being fix't on a Ga [ te . ] You thought that when Hide was Transplant [ ed ] That you should have grown in his place , But his Offspring , who never were Daunted Your Actions did hourly Trace ; For you ( Janus like ) have two Faces , And fit your self for all Places ; Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Which for Treason at last , will be fix't on a Ga [ te . ] Confess all thy Traitorous Actions , Consider the Blood hath been Shed ; Lay open thy yet hidden Factions , Of which thou art surely the Head ; Pull out thy Tap of Sedition , Gain Mercy by true Contrition . Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Or else may thy Head be fast fix't on a Gate . Printed for P.M. in the Year . 1681. H : 135856 And Excellent New BALLAD Of the PLOTTING HEAD . To the Tune of , How Unhappy is Phillis in Love . Or , Let Oliver now be forgotten , etc YOu Presbyters now Relent , For your Plotting is all in vain , Since College does now Repent , And hourly does complain ; That all your contrivance is nothing , And M --- yet proves a Slowthing : Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Thy Policy now is grown quite out of Date . Now all the Caball Men of Fortune , With Toney , the Head of the Crew Who the People did often Importune , To Swear things that never were true : Oh! this is the Fox of the Nation , Who made your Sedition a Fashion , Ah little Pate ! Ill was thy Fate ! For to bring thy self to this wretched Estate . And now where's thy Policy Toney , The Nation so much did Admire , Ha'st lost both thy Wit , and thy Money Since Friends with thy Fortune Expire ; Had not Harris spoke truth at's last Hour , Thou ne're hadst been sent to the Tower , Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Wilt thou have thy Head fixed fast on a Gate . Poor Stafford indeed you outwitted , And thought to have done all the rest , But now your Quaint Policy's fitted And you left to make up the jest ; Except you Invoke your Friend Tory , To turn , and to Swear a New Story : Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Alas must thy Head now be fix't on a Gate ? The Zealots that live in the City , Are griev'd , for to see your strange Fate ; Though yet they your Fortune may pity , They'l find out your Treasons too late : For the Devil you faithfully served , Has left you , to what you deserved Ah little Pate ! Damn'd little Pate ! To cause this distraction and Curse in the Stat [ e . ] Like Lucifer swel'd with Ambition , And tossed from a Heavenly Seat ; So you from a wretched Condition , Was by your King's Favour , made Great But like the worst of all Creatures , Whose Treacherie's seen in his Features ; For you little Pate , To bring in a State , Would venture your Head being fix't on a Ga [ te . ] You thought that when Hide was Transplant [ ed ] That you should have grown in his place , But his Offspring , who never were Daunted Your Actions did hourly Trace ; For you ( Janus like ) have two Faces , And fit your self for all Places ; Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Which for Treason at last , will be fix't on a Ga [ te . ] Confess all thy Traitorous Actions , Consider the Blood hath been Shed ; Lay open thy yet hidden Factions , Of which thou art surely the Head ; Pull out thy Tap of Sedition , Gain Mercy by true Contrition . Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Or else may thy Head be fast fix't on a Gate . Printed for P.M. in the Year . 1681. H : 135856 And Excellent New BALLAD Of the PLOTTING HEAD . To the Tune of , How Unhappy is Phillis in Love . Or , Let Oliver now be forgotten , etc YOu Presbyters now Relent , For your Plotting is all in vain , Since College does now Repent , And hourly does complain ; That all your contrivance is nothing , And M --- yet proves a Slowthing : Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Thy Policy now is grown quite out of Date . Now all the Caball Men of Fortune , With Toney , the Head of the Crew Who the People did often Importune , To Swear things that never were true : Oh! this is the Fox of the Nation , Who made your Sedition a Fashion , Ah little Pate ! Ill was thy Fate ! For to bring thy self to this wretched Estate . And now where's thy Policy Toney , The Nation so much did Admire , Ha'st lost both thy Wit , and thy Money Since Friends with thy Fortune Expire ; Had not Harris spoke truth at's last Hour , Thou ne're hadst been sent to the Tower , Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Wilt thou have thy Head fixed fast on a Gate . Poor Stafford indeed you outwitted , And thought to have done all the rest , But now your Quaint Policy's fitted And you left to make up the jest ; Except you Invoke your Friend Tory , To turn , and to Swear a New Story : Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Alas must thy Head now be fix't on a Gate ? The Zealots that live in the City , Are griev'd , for to see your strange Fate ; Though yet they your Fortune may pity , They'l find out your Treasons too late : For the Devil you faithfully served , Has left you , to what you deserved Ah little Pate ! Damn'd little Pate ! To cause this distraction and Curse in the Stat [ e . ] Like Lucifer swel'd with Ambition , And tossed from a Heavenly Seat ; So you from a wretched Condition , Was by your King's Favour , made Great But like the worst of all Creatures , Whose Treacherie's seen in his Features ; For you little Pate , To bring in a State , Would venture your Head being fix't on a Ga [ te . ] You thought that when Hide was Transplant [ ed ] That you should have grown in his place , But his Offspring , who never were Daunted Your Actions did hourly Trace ; For you ( Janus like ) have two Faces , And fit your self for all Places ; Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Which for Treason at last , will be fix't on a Ga [ te . ] Confess all thy Traitorous Actions , Consider the Blood hath been Shed ; Lay open thy yet hidden Factions , Of which thou art surely the Head ; Pull out thy Tap of Sedition , Gain Mercy by true Contrition . Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Or else may thy Head be fast fix't on a Gate . Printed for P.M. in the Year . 1681. H : 135856 And Excellent New BALLAD Of the PLOTTING HEAD . To the Tune of , How Unhappy is Phillis in Love . Or , Let Oliver now be forgotten , etc YOu Presbyters now Relent , For your Plotting is all in vain , Since College does now Repent , And hourly does complain ; That all your contrivance is nothing , And M --- yet proves a Slowthing : Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Thy Policy now is grown quite out of Date . Now all the Caball Men of Fortune , With Toney , the Head of the Crew Who the People did often Importune , To Swear things that never were true : Oh! this is the Fox of the Nation , Who made your Sedition a Fashion , Ah little Pate ! Ill was thy Fate ! For to bring thy self to this wretched Estate . And now where's thy Policy Toney , The Nation so much did Admire , Ha'st lost both thy Wit , and thy Money Since Friends with thy Fortune Expire ; Had not Harris spoke truth at's last Hour , Thou ne're hadst been sent to the Tower , Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Wilt thou have thy Head fixed fast on a Gate . Poor Stafford indeed you outwitted , And thought to have done all the rest , But now your Quaint Policy's fitted And you left to make up the jest ; Except you Invoke your Friend Tory , To turn , and to Swear a New Story : Ah little Pate ! What is thy Fate ! Alas must thy Head now be fix't on a Gate ? The Zealots that live in the City , Are griev'd , for to see your strange Fate ; Though yet they your Fortune may pity , They'l find out your Treasons too late : For the Devil you faithfully served , Has left you , to what you deserved Ah little Pate ! Damn'd little Pate ! To cause this distraction and Curse in the Stat [ e . ] Like Lucifer swel'd with Ambition , And tossed from a Heavenly Seat ; So you from a wretched Condition , Was by your King's Favour , made Great But like the worst of all Creatures , Whose Treacherie's seen in his Features ; For you little Pate , To bring in a State , Would venture your Head being fix't on a Ga [ te . ] You thought that when Hide was Transplant [ ed ] That you should have grown in his place , But his Offspring , who never were Daunted Your Actions did hourly Trace ; For you ( Janus like ) have two Faces , And fit your self for all Places ; Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Which for Treason at last , will be fix't on a Ga [ te . ] Confess all thy Traitorous Actions , Consider the Blood hath been Shed ; Lay open thy yet hidden Factions , Of which thou art surely the Head ; Pull out thy Tap of Sedition , Gain Mercy by true Contrition . Ah little Pate ! Politic Pate ! Or else may thy Head be fast fix't on a Gate . Printed for P.M. in the Year . 1681. 