H : 135855 [ 1 ] OATES WELL THRESH'T . Being a Dialogue of Country-make Betwixt a Farmer , and his Man-Boy , Jack . The Good Man , who had lost much by the Grain , Hears Presbyter-Jack to Plead for it in vain . The Tune , Which no Body can deny , etc The Burden must be Twice Repeated . Jack . OUr Oats , last Week not worth a Groat , Have , Sir , ( which all do wonder at ) Abomination thriv'd of late ; Which not Body can deny , Sir . Master . [ ? ] e all the Tribe of Oats Accurs't , [ A ] and the Old Dotard too , that first [ TO ] he Brat within his Hedges nursed , And sow'd such Wicked Seed , Boy . Jack . [ G ] ood Master , pray your Fury stop ; [ F ] or , as the Saying is , I hope , [ Y ] ou'll shortly see a Doctor-Crop , And many more beside , Sir . Master . [ ? ] Curse on every thing , that's height Oats ; [ B ] oath Old & Young , both Black & White Oats , [ B ] oath Long & Short , both Light & Tite Oats : I hate the Vip'rous Breed , Boy . Jack . Your Oats , now Ripe , Sir , do appear ; For they begin to hang the Ear ; The Time of Cutting them draws near , If my Skill fails me not , Sir . Master . Then down with 'em , and all their Train ; Let not a Blade of them remain , Our poor Land to infect again ; 'Tis pity one should escape , Boy . Jack . Where shall I reek them , ( the Sithe's Edge They've felt ) in Barn , or under Hedge ? For they are fit for Cart , or Sledge , And a Roping only want , Sir . Master . E'en if thou wilt , lodge them in thy Barn ; For they shall ne'r come among my Corn ; Or Cart them , if thou wilt , to Tyburn ; And there too Truss them up , Boy . [ 2 ] Jack . Th' are hous'd , Sir ; But the Trash all Sense Exceeds , that's in 'em : By what Means , This Filthy Oats shall we ere cleanse ? From all that Roguish Stuff , Sir ? Master . Go , get a pack of Sturdy Louts , And let them lustily Thresh their Coats ; Too well you cannot Thresh Damn'd Oats ; Which not Body can deny , Boy . Jack . Th' are thresh't , & wimb'd , & made as clean , As hands can do't ; but all in vain : For still Base Oats behind remain : What shall we do with 'em , Sir ? Master . Let 'em divided be ( like Martyrs Of Royal Justice ) into Quarters ; Then ground in Mill , or bray'd in Mortars : So Oats ought to be serv'd , Boy . Jack . How shall I use the Straw ? 'Tis good Only to cast out in the Road , And under Foot to Dung be trod ; And there to lie and rot , Sir . Master . Burn't , like and Heretic , in Flame ; And Expiate so our Gilded and Shame , For giving Long-Tail'd Oats such Fame , Abhorr'd by all but us , Boy . Beyond Sea th' are kick't out of Door ; But held with us Here in such Store , That Oats we even do Adore : But Cursed be Oates , say I , Boy . Jack . What shall we now at last , Sir , do With this Same Paltry Oats , by You So hated , and admired by few ; And those both Knaves and Fools , Sir . Master . Let Oats be cast to Ravenous Hogs , Or ground for Meat for Hungry Dogs ; And no where Sown , but in deep Bogs , Or Bottom of a Jakes , Boy . Or to the Fowls o' the' Air be thrown , By Vermin to be prey'd upon ; Or out o' th' World by Whirlwinds blown , To th' Devil's Arse of Peak , Boy . Let ev'ry Tongue , and Tail i' th' I'll , Of Man , of Bird , of Beast , defile Oats so Detestable , Oats so Vile ; And 'twill be so , thou'lt see , Boy . Or if to Popery thou incline , Thou shalt have Oats encag'd in a Shrine , And show about that Trash Divine ; And this will get thee Pence , Boy . Jack . Let it , Good Master , pray be so , And I'le among the Papists go , With my Oh rare Shite , & my O brave Show , Till I a Pension get , Sir . And then I'le Coach it up and down , From Country , and from Town to Town , Till o're the World I've made Oats known , For a very R ------ in Grain , Sir . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R. H. in the Year , 1681. H : 135855 [ 1 ] OATES WELL THRESH'T . Being a Dialogue of Country-make Betwixt a Farmer , and his Man-Boy , Jack . The Good Man , who had lost much by the Grain , Hears Presbyter-Jack to Plead for it in vain . The Tune , Which no Body can deny , etc The Burden must be Twice Repeated . Jack . OUr Oats , last Week not worth a Groat , Have , Sir , ( which all do wonder at ) Abomination thriv'd of late ; Which not Body can deny , Sir . Master . [ ? ] e all the Tribe of Oats Accurs't , [ A ] and the Old Dotard too , that first [ TO ] he Brat within his Hedges nursed , And sow'd such Wicked Seed , Boy . Jack . [ G ] ood Master , pray your Fury stop ; [ F ] or , as the Saying is , I hope , [ Y ] ou'll shortly see a Doctor-Crop , And many more beside , Sir . Master . [ ? ] Curse on every thing , that's height Oats ; [ B ] oath Old & Young , both Black & White Oats , [ B ] oath Long & Short , both Light & Tite Oats : I hate the Vip'rous Breed , Boy . Jack . Your Oats , now Ripe , Sir , do appear ; For they begin to hang the Ear ; The Time of Cutting them draws near , If my Skill fails me not , Sir . Master . Then down with 'em , and all their Train ; Let not a Blade of them remain , Our poor Land to infect again ; 'Tis pity one should escape , Boy . Jack . Where shall I reek them , ( the Sithe's Edge They've felt ) in Barn , or under Hedge ? For they are fit for Cart , or Sledge , And a Roping only want , Sir . Master . E'en if thou wilt , lodge them in thy Barn ; For they shall ne'r come among my Corn ; Or Cart them , if thou wilt , to Tyburn ; And there too Truss them up , Boy . [ 2 ] Jack . Th' are hous'd , Sir ; But the Trash all Sense Exceeds , that's in 'em : By what Means , This Filthy Oats shall we ere cleanse ? From all that Roguish Stuff , Sir ? Master . Go , get a pack of Sturdy Louts , And let them lustily Thresh their Coats ; Too well you cannot Thresh Damn'd Oats ; Which not Body can deny , Boy . Jack . Th' are thresh't , & wimb'd , & made as clean , As hands can do't ; but all in vain : For still Base Oats behind remain : What shall we do with 'em , Sir ? Master . Let 'em divided be ( like Martyrs Of Royal Justice ) into Quarters ; Then ground in Mill , or bray'd in Mortars : So Oats ought to be serv'd , Boy . Jack . How shall I use the Straw ? 'Tis good Only to cast out in the Road , And under Foot to Dung be trod ; And there to lie and rot , Sir . Master . Burn't , like and Heretic , in Flame ; And Expiate so our Gilded and Shame , For giving Long-Tail'd Oats such Fame , Abhorr'd by all but us , Boy . Beyond Sea th' are kick't out of Door ; But held with us Here in such Store , That Oats we even do Adore : But Cursed be Oates , say I , Boy . Jack . What shall we now at last , Sir , do With this Same Paltry Oats , by You So hated , and admired by few ; And those both Knaves and Fools , Sir . Master . Let Oats be cast to Ravenous Hogs , Or ground for Meat for Hungry Dogs ; And no where Sown , but in deep Bogs , Or Bottom of a Jakes , Boy . Or to the Fowls o' the' Air be thrown , By Vermin to be prey'd upon ; Or out o' th' World by Whirlwinds blown , To th' Devil's Arse of Peak , Boy . Let ev'ry Tongue , and Tail i' th' I'll , Of Man , of Bird , of Beast , defile Oats so Detestable , Oats so Vile ; And 'twill be so , thou'lt see , Boy . Or if to Popery thou incline , Thou shalt have Oats encag'd in a Shrine , And show about that Trash Divine ; And this will get thee Pence , Boy . Jack . Let it , Good Master , pray be so , And I'le among the Papists go , With my Oh rare Shite , & my O brave Show , Till I a Pension get , Sir . And then I'le Coach it up and down , From Country , and from Town to Town , Till o're the World I've made Oats known , For a very R ------ in Grain , Sir . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R. H. in the Year , 1681. 