H : 135854 Have You any Work for a COOPER ? OR , A COMPARISON Betwixt a Cooper's , and a Joyner's Trade , Wherein their Qualities are both display'd : But still the Cooper , as you Here may find , The Joiner does Excel in ev'ry Kind . The Tune , The Friar and the Nun , etc THE Cooper , and the Joiner , are Two famous Trades : They both are cunning Workmen ; they both are crafty Lads : They both can varnish off their Work ; both will you Trepan : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Man. They both have their Trade well , to give the Devil his Due ; Nay , some stick not to say , He was their Master too : But though the Joiner do appear the more Active Blade ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Lad. They both work in Timber , but not in the same Wood : The Cooper works in Ash , that Hilts makes firm and good For the Axe , that on the Head all Lordly Traitors knocks : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Fox . The Joiner he ( of late ) work't for Life 'bout a Tree , Like the Old Tripple-Oak , which near Hide-Park you see ; Where many Trait'rous Pendulums have had a shrewd Disaster : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is their ------ Master . The Cooper he hoops Hogsheads , and a Hold i' th' Side leaves open ; The Joiner he Joins all Things , except a Neck that's broken : Though both were wrapped up in the Smock of their City-Mother ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Th' Elder-Brother . The Cooper on his Friends , late casts a Squinting-Eye : The Joiner too of late , does shrewdly look awry . And though they do , in this one Point , both of them agree : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Ipse He. Both are True Protestants , and of the Newest Stamp , ( Such as Jack Presbyter does with and Atheist Vamp : ) Both the Glory of the Church ; both in the old Way bred ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is its ------ Head. The Cooper he can make a Speech to be admir'd : The Joiner too can prate , as if he were inspir'd ; It seems his Clapper is well hung , ( I wish them well hung both ; ) Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Youth . They both went to Oxford , to Study , I suppose ; But not both of One College , yet both of Brazen-Nose : But One of them stayed behind , his Degrees to take there : And say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Quaker . The University discovered soon their Parts : But it had never yet There , Master's of such Arts : Each of them for the Good Old Cause , doubtless is a Right Boy : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ White-Boy . [ 2 ] The Pope Absolves about Town , is now the Cooper's Cry ; The King Dissolves , then cries the Joiner by and by ; And the People do Resolve , is the Rabble's Vogue : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Rogue . Great Scholars stood amaz'd , to hear the Cooper plead ; And wonder'd too to hear , what the Learned Joyner said : He of all the Bawling Curs , is the Chief Controller : But say what you will , the Cooper is ------ Old Jouler . The Cooper is , you know , Chief Workman to a Brewer ; The Joiner work't for both , but makes not Work so sure ; As apppear'd not long ago , much to the Cooper's Grief : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's a ------ Sly Thief . The Cooper by his Calling , does often work with Fools ; The Joiner does thee same too , and uses the same Tools : And though he be accounted , by all a Subtle Slave ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Knave . The Cooper is and Elderman of Fame and Renown ; The Joiner is likewise a Freeman of the Town : And though he wears no Gown , he did lately wear a Chain ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper merits ------ Twain . Both ( like their Fellow-Tradesmen ) can Cant and Cringe , to Cheat Their Customers with Wares , False and Adulterate ; And fell too their own Father's , for a Penny in the Shilling : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Villain . They both can Yea and Nay , both can Profess , to get Unwary silly Wood-Cocks into their Treach'rous Ne Both can snear like Saints , with Carriage wond'rous Civil ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Devil . The Cooper he is free to work i' th' Tower all Day ; But not with th' Popish Lords , at Pins or Bowls to Play ; Or any such Profane Game , whereof the Pope's Contriver : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Top-driver . The Joiner has a Freedom herein beyond the Cooper ; For he i' th' open Field , with Catch may play a Rubber : And though he were so mad , his Neck to venture at one Stake there ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Match-Maker , The Cooper he has been a Parliament-Cavalier ; The Joiner had been for the Next Election fair , Had he not late miscarry'd by the Member's Division ; Yet say what you will , Cooper's the ------ Politician . All you can for the Joiner say , ( say your Best , or Worst ) Is , That he had the Honour to be Exalted first . Well , I'le to oblige you , grant that Part of your Tex Yet say what you will , the Cooper will be ------ Next . Now , pray take Notice all of you , whate're you are , That 'fore the Noble Cooper , the Joiner do prefer ; You must confess , That if with him in any sort compar'd , E'en say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Laird . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R. H. in the YEAR 1681. H : 135854 Have You any Work for a COOPER ? OR , A COMPARISON Betwixt a Cooper's , and a Joyner's Trade , Wherein their Qualities are both display'd : But still the Cooper , as you Here may find , The Joiner does Excel in ev'ry Kind . The Tune , The Friar and the Nun , etc THE Cooper , and the Joiner , are Two famous Trades : They both are cunning Workmen ; they both are crafty Lads : They both can varnish off their Work ; both will you Trepan : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Man. They both have their Trade well , to give the Devil his Due ; Nay , some stick not to say , He was their Master too : But though the Joiner do appear the more Active Blade ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Lad. They both work in Timber , but not in the same Wood : The Cooper works in Ash , that Hilts makes firm and good For the Axe , that on the Head all Lordly Traitors knocks : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Fox . The Joiner he ( of late ) work't for Life 'bout a Tree , Like the Old Tripple-Oak , which near Hide-Park you see ; Where many Trait'rous Pendulums have had a shrewd Disaster : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is their ------ Master . The Cooper he hoops Hogsheads , and a Hold i' th' Side leaves open ; The Joiner he Joins all Things , except a Neck that's broken : Though both were wrapped up in the Smock of their City-Mother ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Th' Elder-Brother . The Cooper on his Friends , late casts a Squinting-Eye : The Joiner too of late , does shrewdly look awry . And though they do , in this one Point , both of them agree : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Ipse He. Both are True Protestants , and of the Newest Stamp , ( Such as Jack Presbyter does with and Atheist Vamp : ) Both the Glory of the Church ; both in the old Way bred ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is its ------ Head. The Cooper he can make a Speech to be admir'd : The Joiner too can prate , as if he were inspir'd ; It seems his Clapper is well hung , ( I wish them well hung both ; ) Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Youth . They both went to Oxford , to Study , I suppose ; But not both of One College , yet both of Brazen-Nose : But One of them stayed behind , his Degrees to take there : And say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Quaker . The University discovered soon their Parts : But it had never yet There , Master's of such Arts : Each of them for the Good Old Cause , doubtless is a Right Boy : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ White-Boy . [ 2 ] The Pope Absolves about Town , is now the Cooper's Cry ; The King Dissolves , then cries the Joiner by and by ; And the People do Resolve , is the Rabble's Vogue : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Rogue . Great Scholars stood amaz'd , to hear the Cooper plead ; And wonder'd too to hear , what the Learned Joyner said : He of all the Bawling Curs , is the Chief Controller : But say what you will , the Cooper is ------ Old Jouler . The Cooper is , you know , Chief Workman to a Brewer ; The Joiner work't for both , but makes not Work so sure ; As apppear'd not long ago , much to the Cooper's Grief : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's a ------ Sly Thief . The Cooper by his Calling , does often work with Fools ; The Joiner does thee same too , and uses the same Tools : And though he be accounted , by all a Subtle Slave ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Knave . The Cooper is and Elderman of Fame and Renown ; The Joiner is likewise a Freeman of the Town : And though he wears no Gown , he did lately wear a Chain ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper merits ------ Twain . Both ( like their Fellow-Tradesmen ) can Cant and Cringe , to Cheat Their Customers with Wares , False and Adulterate ; And fell too their own Father's , for a Penny in the Shilling : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Villain . They both can Yea and Nay , both can Profess , to get Unwary silly Wood-Cocks into their Treach'rous Ne Both can snear like Saints , with Carriage wond'rous Civil ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Devil . The Cooper he is free to work i' th' Tower all Day ; But not with th' Popish Lords , at Pins or Bowls to Play ; Or any such Profane Game , whereof the Pope's Contriver : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Top-driver . The Joiner has a Freedom herein beyond the Cooper ; For he i' th' open Field , with Catch may play a Rubber : And though he were so mad , his Neck to venture at one Stake there ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Match-Maker , The Cooper he has been a Parliament-Cavalier ; The Joiner had been for the Next Election fair , Had he not late miscarry'd by the Member's Division ; Yet say what you will , Cooper's the ------ Politician . All you can for the Joiner say , ( say your Best , or Worst ) Is , That he had the Honour to be Exalted first . Well , I'le to oblige you , grant that Part of your Tex Yet say what you will , the Cooper will be ------ Next . Now , pray take Notice all of you , whate're you are , That 'fore the Noble Cooper , the Joiner do prefer ; You must confess , That if with him in any sort compar'd , E'en say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Laird . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R. H. in the YEAR 1681. H : 135854 [ 1 ] Have You any Work for a COOPER ? OR , A COMPARISON Betwixt a Cooper's , and a Joyner's Trade , Wherein their Qualities are both display'd : But still the Cooper , as you Here may find , The Joiner does Excel in ev'ry Kind . The Tune , The Friar and the Nun , etc THE Cooper , and the Joiner , are Two famous Trades : They both are cunning Workmen ; they both are crafty Lads : They both can varnish off their Work ; both will you Trepan : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Man. They both have their Trade well , to give the Devil his Due ; Nay , some stick not to say , He was their Master too : But though the Joiner do appear the more Active Blade ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Lad. They both work in Timber , but not in the same Wood : The Cooper works in Ash , that Hilts makes firm and good For the Axe , that on the Head all Lordly Traitors knocks : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Fox . The Joiner he ( of late ) work't for Life 'bout a Tree , Like the Old Tripple-Oak , which near Hide-Park you see ; Where many Trait'rous Pendulums have had a shrewd Disaster : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is their ------ Master . The Cooper he hoops Hogsheads , and a Hold i' th' Side leaves open ; The Joiner he Joins all Things , except a Neck that's broken : Though both were wrapped up in the Smock of their City-Mother ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Th' Elder-Brother . The Cooper on his Friends , late casts a Squinting-Eye : The Joiner too of late , does shrewdly look awry . And though they do , in this one Point , both of them agree : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Ipse He. Both are True Protestants , and of the Newest Stamp , ( Such as Jack Presbyter does with and Atheist Vamp : ) Both the Glory of the Church ; both in the old Way bred ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is its ------ Head. The Cooper he can make a Speech to be admir'd : The Joiner too can prate , as if he were inspir'd ; It seems his Clapper is well hung , ( I wish them well hung both ; ) Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Youth . They both went to Oxford , to Study , I suppose ; But not both of One College , yet both of Brazen-Nose : But One of them stayed behind , his Degrees to take there : And say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Quaker . The University discovered soon their Parts : But it had never yet There , Master's of such Arts : Each of them for the Good Old Cause , doubtless is a Right Boy : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ White-Boy . [ 2 ] The Pope Absolves about Town , is now the Cooper's Cry ; The King Dissolves , then cries the Joiner by and by ; And the People do Resolve , is the Rabble's Vogue : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Rogue . Great Scholars stood amaz'd , to hear the Cooper plead ; And wonder'd too to hear , what the Learned Joyner said : He of all the Bawling Curs , is the Chief Controller : But say what you will , the Cooper is ------ Old Jouler . The Cooper is , you know , Chief Workman to a Brewer ; The Joiner work't for both , but makes not Work so sure ; As apppear'd not long ago , much to the Cooper's Grief : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's a ------ Sly Thief . The Cooper by his Calling , does often work with Fools ; The Joiner does thee same too , and uses the same Tools : And though he be accounted , by all a Subtle Slave ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Knave . The Cooper is and Elderman of Fame and Renown ; The Joiner is likewise a Freeman of the Town : And though he wears no Gown , he did lately wear a Chain ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper merits ------ Twain . Both ( like their Fellow-Tradesmen ) can Cant and Cringe , to Cheat Their Customers with Wares , False and Adulterate ; And fell too their own Father's , for a Penny in the Shilling : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Villain . They both can Yea and Nay , both can Profess , to get Unwary silly Wood-Cocks into their Treach'rous Ne Both can snear like Saints , with Carriage wond'rous Civil ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Devil . The Cooper he is free to work i' th' Tower all Day ; But not with th' Popish Lords , at Pins or Bowls to Play ; Or any such Profane Game , whereof the Pope's Contriver : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Top-driver . The Joiner has a Freedom herein beyond the Cooper ; For he i' th' open Field , with Catch may play a Rubber : And though he were so mad , his Neck to venture at one Stake there ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Match-Maker , The Cooper he has been a Parliament-Cavalier ; The Joiner had been for the Next Election fair , Had he not late miscarry'd by the Member's Division ; Yet say what you will , Cooper's the ------ Politician . All you can for the Joiner say , ( say your Best , or Worst ) Is , That he had the Honour to be Exalted first . Well , I'le to oblige you , grant that Part of your Tex Yet say what you will , the Cooper will be ------ Next . Now , pray take Notice all of you , whate're you are , That 'fore the Noble Cooper , the Joiner do prefer ; You must confess , That if with him in any sort compar'd , E'en say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Laird . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R. H. in the YEAR 1681. H : 135854 [ 1 ] Have You any Work for a COOPER ? OR , A COMPARISON Betwixt a Cooper's , and a Joyner's Trade , Wherein their Qualities are both display'd : But still the Cooper , as you Here may find , The Joiner does Excel in ev'ry Kind . The Tune , The Friar and the Nun , etc THE Cooper , and the Joiner , are Two famous Trades : They both are cunning Workmen ; they both are crafty Lads : They both can varnish off their Work ; both will you Trepan : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Man. They both have their Trade well , to give the Devil his Due ; Nay , some stick not to say , He was their Master too : But though the Joiner do appear the more Active Blade ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Lad. They both work in Timber , but not in the same Wood : The Cooper works in Ash , that Hilts makes firm and good For the Axe , that on the Head all Lordly Traitors knocks : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Fox . The Joiner he ( of late ) work't for Life 'bout a Tree , Like the Old Tripple-Oak , which near Hide-Park you see ; Where many Trait'rous Pendulums have had a shrewd Disaster : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is their ------ Master . The Cooper he hoops Hogsheads , and a Hold i' th' Side leaves open ; The Joiner he Joins all Things , except a Neck that's broken : Though both were wrapped up in the Smock of their City-Mother ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Th' Elder-Brother . The Cooper on his Friends , late casts a Squinting-Eye : The Joiner too of late , does shrewdly look awry . And though they do , in this one Point , both of them agree : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's ------ Ipse He. Both are True Protestants , and of the Newest Stamp , ( Such as Jack Presbyter does with and Atheist Vamp : ) Both the Glory of the Church ; both in the old Way bred ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is its ------ Head. The Cooper he can make a Speech to be admir'd : The Joiner too can prate , as if he were inspir'd ; It seems his Clapper is well hung , ( I wish them well hung both ; ) Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Youth . They both went to Oxford , to Study , I suppose ; But not both of One College , yet both of Brazen-Nose : But One of them stayed behind , his Degrees to take there : And say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Quaker . The University discovered soon their Parts : But it had never yet There , Master's of such Arts : Each of them for the Good Old Cause , doubtless is a Right Boy : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ White-Boy . [ 2 ] The Pope Absolves about Town , is now the Cooper's Cry ; The King Dissolves , then cries the Joiner by and by ; And the People do Resolve , is the Rabble's Vogue : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Rogue . Great Scholars stood amaz'd , to hear the Cooper plead ; And wonder'd too to hear , what the Learned Joyner said : He of all the Bawling Curs , is the Chief Controller : But say what you will , the Cooper is ------ Old Jouler . The Cooper is , you know , Chief Workman to a Brewer ; The Joiner work't for both , but makes not Work so sure ; As apppear'd not long ago , much to the Cooper's Grief : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's a ------ Sly Thief . The Cooper by his Calling , does often work with Fools ; The Joiner does thee same too , and uses the same Tools : And though he be accounted , by all a Subtle Slave ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Knave . The Cooper is and Elderman of Fame and Renown ; The Joiner is likewise a Freeman of the Town : And though he wears no Gown , he did lately wear a Chain ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper merits ------ Twain . Both ( like their Fellow-Tradesmen ) can Cant and Cringe , to Cheat Their Customers with Wares , False and Adulterate ; And fell too their own Father's , for a Penny in the Shilling : Yet say what you will , the Cooper is the ------ Villain . They both can Yea and Nay , both can Profess , to get Unwary silly Wood-Cocks into their Treach'rous Ne Both can snear like Saints , with Carriage wond'rous Civil ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Devil . The Cooper he is free to work i' th' Tower all Day ; But not with th' Popish Lords , at Pins or Bowls to Play ; Or any such Profane Game , whereof the Pope's Contriver : Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Top-driver . The Joiner has a Freedom herein beyond the Cooper ; For he i' th' open Field , with Catch may play a Rubber : And though he were so mad , his Neck to venture at one Stake there ; Yet say what you will , the Cooper's the ------ Match-Maker , The Cooper he has been a Parliament-Cavalier ; The Joiner had been for the Next Election fair , Had he not late miscarry'd by the Member's Division ; Yet say what you will , Cooper's the ------ Politician . All you can for the Joiner say , ( say your Best , or Worst ) Is , That he had the Honour to be Exalted first . Well , I'le to oblige you , grant that Part of your Tex Yet say what you will , the Cooper will be ------ Next . Now , pray take Notice all of you , whate're you are , That 'fore the Noble Cooper , the Joiner do prefer ; You must confess , That if with him in any sort compar'd , E'en say what you will , the Cooper is a ------ Laird . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R. H. in the YEAR 1681. 