H : 135892 PROLOGUE To His ROYAL HIGHNESS , Upon His first appearance at the DUKE'S THEATRE since his Return from SCOTLAND . Written by Mr. Dryden . Spoken by Mr. Smith . IN those cold Regions which no Summer's cheer , When brooding darkness covers half the year , To hollow Caves the shivering Natives go ; Bears range abroad , and hunt in tracks of Snow : But when the tedious Twilight wears away , And Stars grow paler at th' approach of Day , The longing Crowds to frozen Mountains run , Happy who first can see the glimmering Sun ! The surly Salvage Offspring disappear ; And curse the bright Successor of the Year . Yet , though rough Bears in Covert seek defence , White Foxes stay , with seeming Innocence : That crafty kind with daylight can dispense . Still we are throng'd so full with Reynard's raze , That Loyal Subject's scarce can find a place : Thus modest Truth is cast behind the Crowd : Truth speaks too Low ; Hypocrisy too Loud . Let 'em be first , to flatter in success ; Duty can stay ; but Gilded has need to press . Once , when true Zeal the Sons of God did call , To make their solemn show at Heaven's White-hall , The fawning Devil appear'd among the rest , And made as good a Courtier as the best . The Friends of Job , who rail'd at him before , Came Cap in hand when he had three times more . Yet , late Repentance may , perhaps , be true ; Kings can forgive if Rebels can but sue : A Tyrant's Pow'r in rigour is express The Father yearns in the true Prince's Breast . We grant and Ore'grown Whig no grace can mend ; But most are Babes , that know not they offend . The Crowd , to restless motion still enclin'd , Are Clouds , that rack according to the Wind. Driv'n by their Chiefs they storms of Hailstones pour : Then mourn , and soften to a silent shower . O welcome to this much offending Land The Prince that brings forgiveness in his hand ! Thus Angels on glad Messages appear : Their first Salute commands us not to fear : Thus Heav'n , that cou'd constrain us to obey , ( With rev'rence if we might presume to say , ) Seems to relax the rights of Sov'reign sway : Permits to Man the choice of Good and Ill ; And makes us Happy by our own Freewill . London , Printed for J. Tonson . H : 135892 PROLOGUE To His ROYAL HIGHNESS , Upon His first appearance at the DUKE'S THEATRE since his Return from SCOTLAND . Written by Mr. Dryden . Spoken by Mr. Smith . IN those cold Regions which no Summer's cheer , When brooding darkness covers half the year , To hollow Caves the shivering Natives go ; Bears range abroad , and hunt in tracks of Snow : But when the tedious Twilight wears away , And Stars grow paler at th' approach of Day , The longing Crowds to frozen Mountains run , Happy who first can see the glimmering Sun ! The surly Salvage Offspring disappear ; And curse the bright Successor of the Year . Yet , though rough Bears in Covert seek defence , White Foxes stay , with seeming Innocence : That crafty kind with daylight can dispense . Still we are throng'd so full with Reynard's raze , That Loyal Subject's scarce can find a place : Thus modest Truth is cast behind the Crowd : Truth speaks too Low ; Hypocrisy too Loud . Let 'em be first , to flatter in success ; Duty can stay ; but Gilded has need to press . Once , when true Zeal the Sons of God did call , To make their solemn show at Heaven's White-hall , The fawning Devil appear'd among the rest , And made as good a Courtier as the best . The Friends of Job , who rail'd at him before , Came Cap in hand when he had three times more . Yet , late Repentance may , perhaps , be true ; Kings can forgive if Rebels can but sue : A Tyrant's Pow'r in rigour is express The Father yearns in the true Prince's Breast . We grant and Ore'grown Whig no grace can mend ; But most are Babes , that know not they offend . The Crowd , to restless motion still enclin'd , Are Clouds , that rack according to the Wind. Driv'n by their Chiefs they storms of Hailstones pour : Then mourn , and soften to a silent shower . O welcome to this much offending Land The Prince that brings forgiveness in his hand ! Thus Angels on glad Messages appear : Their first Salute commands us not to fear : Thus Heav'n , that cou'd constrain us to obey , ( With rev'rence if we might presume to say , ) Seems to relax the rights of Sov'reign sway : Permits to Man the choice of Good and Ill ; And makes us Happy by our own Freewill . London , Printed for J. Tonson . 