H : 135884 A New BALLAD from WHIGG-LAND . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . BRave Monmouth's out of Favour now , The Lord knows what's the Cause ; I think , no one can justly say , He has transgressed the Laws : But yet the TORIES cry him down , Old Tony and Young Grey ; By this in time they'l gain Renown , But the clean contrary way . Stout Monmouth fought Rebellious Scots , And brought them on their Knees , He made the stubborn Necks to stoop Of Men of all Degrees ; But Bothwel-Bridge is now forgotten , And Mastricht's Storm they say , And his Honor's like to go to th' Pot , But the clean contrary way . He kept the PAPISTS all in Awe , Though now they strut like JAYES ; They valve neither Him nor Law , I speak it to their Praise ; But yet I hope the time will come , By Night or else by Day , When all his Foes shall gain their Ends , But the clean contrary way . ABHORRERS are the Blades of Fame , The Glory of the Land , They hate his Actions and his Name , And at defiance stand ; They trample on his Noble Acts , And truly well they may , For they are Mounting up we find , But the clean contrary way . The Papists now do gain their End , While Monmouth is run down , They seek to get their Popish Friend , Possessed o' th' English CROWN : But let them PLOT a thousand times , Their PLOTS will fail , I'll lay ; I hope indeed they'l Mount the Throne , But the clean contrary way . Where will ABHORRERS hide themselves When th' Parliament draws near ? L'Estrange , and THEY , and Thompson too , Will Hide themselves I fear , They'l fly like Chaff before the Wind For all their fine Array , They all will be preferr'd you'l find , But the clean contrary way . Brave Monmouth now is laid aside , As useless to the KING ; But yet it must not be denied , He made the Nation Ring ; He was the Glory of this Land , Next to the King , I say , But now it seems he has Command , The clean contrary way . Bad times will hardly mend I doubt , If PAPISTS come in Pow'r ; The POPE will have another bout Our Nation to devour ; And we may sink beneath his Yoke , And all become his Prey , We may well look to Rise by Him , But the clean contrary way . But GOD Preserve our KING so long , Till we secure our Peace ; Then we may Sing a Thankful Song , When all our Discords cease ; But while the Papists soar aloft How can we Sing or Play ? Ah lass our Comforts come to us , But the clean contrary way . Should Monmouth fallen Our Hope's would fail Of Comfort and of Aid , The PAPISTS think they might prevail In their Old PLOTTING Trade ; But let him Live to Vex them still And lodge them all in Clay , And let them find their Glory Rise , The clean contrary way . The Quakers now are Cramm'd in Goals , Because they will not Swear , The Presbyter and Baptists too , And Independant's here , Because they will not go to Church With Common-Prayer to Pray , It seems the Law must make them Rich The clean contrary way . Ten Thousand Protestants we find Are WHIGGS esteemed now , And all because they do not Mind At ALTARS for to Bow , If Papists Mount , then they must Fallen For all they look so Gay , And they must Rise both Great and Small The clean contrary way . But Heavens Protect our Sacred King , And send a PARLIAMENT , And then true Protestants may Sing And have their full Content ; The TORY Tribe will then be known And for their Roguery pay , And the POPE shall once more gain his Own The clean contrary way . No Doubt the Popish Tribe will say , A WHIGG did make this Song , By all that's good , I go to Church , They do my Muses wrong , But he's and Ass , will go to Mass To hear the Asses Bray , And he to Heaven in time will pass , The clean contrary way . LONDON , Printed for N. Whigg , 1682. H : 135884 A New BALLAD from WHIGG-LAND . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . BRave Monmouth's out of Favour now , The Lord knows what's the Cause ; I think , no one can justly say , He has transgressed the Laws : But yet the TORIES cry him down , Old Tony and Young Grey ; By this in time they'l gain Renown , But the clean contrary way . Stout Monmouth fought Rebellious Scots , And brought them on their Knees , He made the stubborn Necks to stoop Of Men of all Degrees ; But Bothwel-Bridge is now forgotten , And Mastricht's Storm they say , And his Honor's like to go to th' Pot , But the clean contrary way . He kept the PAPISTS all in Awe , Though now they strut like JAYES ; They valve neither Him nor Law , I speak it to their Praise ; But yet I hope the time will come , By Night or else by Day , When all his Foes shall gain their Ends , But the clean contrary way . ABHORRERS are the Blades of Fame , The Glory of the Land , They hate his Actions and his Name , And at defiance stand ; They trample on his Noble Acts , And truly well they may , For they are Mounting up we find , But the clean contrary way . The Papists now do gain their End , While Monmouth is run down , They seek to get their Popish Friend , Possessed o' th' English CROWN : But let them PLOT a thousand times , Their PLOTS will fail , I'll lay ; I hope indeed they'l Mount the Throne , But the clean contrary way . Where will ABHORRERS hide themselves When th' Parliament draws near ? L'Estrange , and THEY , and Thompson too , Will Hide themselves I fear , They'l fly like Chaff before the Wind For all their fine Array , They all will be preferr'd you'l find , But the clean contrary way . Brave Monmouth now is laid aside , As useless to the KING ; But yet it must not be denied , He made the Nation Ring ; He was the Glory of this Land , Next to the King , I say , But now it seems he has Command , The clean contrary way . Bad times will hardly mend I doubt , If PAPISTS come in Pow'r ; The POPE will have another bout Our Nation to devour ; And we may sink beneath his Yoke , And all become his Prey , We may well look to Rise by Him , But the clean contrary way . But GOD Preserve our KING so long , Till we secure our Peace ; Then we may Sing a Thankful Song , When all our Discords cease ; But while the Papists soar aloft How can we Sing or Play ? Ah lass our Comforts come to us , But the clean contrary way . Should Monmouth fallen Our Hope's would fail Of Comfort and of Aid , The PAPISTS think they might prevail In their Old PLOTTING Trade ; But let him Live to Vex them still And lodge them all in Clay , And let them find their Glory Rise , The clean contrary way . The Quakers now are Cramm'd in Goals , Because they will not Swear , The Presbyter and Baptists too , And Independant's here , Because they will not go to Church With Common-Prayer to Pray , It seems the Law must make them Rich The clean contrary way . Ten Thousand Protestants we find Are WHIGGS esteemed now , And all because they do not Mind At ALTARS for to Bow , If Papists Mount , then they must Fallen For all they look so Gay , And they must Rise both Great and Small The clean contrary way . But Heavens Protect our Sacred King , And send a PARLIAMENT , And then true Protestants may Sing And have their full Content ; The TORY Tribe will then be known And for their Roguery pay , And the POPE shall once more gain his Own The clean contrary way . No Doubt the Popish Tribe will say , A WHIGG did make this Song , By all that's good , I go to Church , They do my Muses wrong , But he's and Ass , will go to Mass To hear the Asses Bray , And he to Heaven in time will pass , The clean contrary way . LONDON , Printed for N. Whigg , 1682. H : 135884 A New BALLAD from WHIGG-LAND . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . BRave Monmouth's out of Favour now , The Lord knows what's the Cause ; I think , no one can justly say , He has transgressed the Laws : But yet the TORIES cry him down , Old Tony and Young Grey ; By this in time they'l gain Renown , But the clean contrary way . Stout Monmouth fought Rebellious Scots , And brought them on their Knees , He made the stubborn Necks to stoop Of Men of all Degrees ; But Bothwel-Bridge is now forgotten , And Mastricht's Storm they say , And his Honor's like to go to th' Pot , But the clean contrary way . He kept the PAPISTS all in Awe , Though now they strut like JAYES ; They valve neither Him nor Law , I speak it to their Praise ; But yet I hope the time will come , By Night or else by Day , When all his Foes shall gain their Ends , But the clean contrary way . ABHORRERS are the Blades of Fame , The Glory of the Land , They hate his Actions and his Name , And at defiance stand ; They trample on his Noble Acts , And truly well they may , For they are Mounting up we find , But the clean contrary way . The Papists now do gain their End , While Monmouth is run down , They seek to get their Popish Friend , Possessed o' th' English CROWN : But let them PLOT a thousand times , Their PLOTS will fail , I'll lay ; I hope indeed they'l Mount the Throne , But the clean contrary way . Where will ABHORRERS hide themselves When th' Parliament draws near ? L'Estrange , and THEY , and Thompson too , Will Hide themselves I fear , They'l fly like Chaff before the Wind For all their fine Array , They all will be preferr'd you'l find , But the clean contrary way . Brave Monmouth now is laid aside , As useless to the KING ; But yet it must not be denied , He made the Nation Ring ; He was the Glory of this Land , Next to the King , I say , But now it seems he has Command , The clean contrary way . Bad times will hardly mend I doubt , If PAPISTS come in Pow'r ; The POPE will have another bout Our Nation to devour ; And we may sink beneath his Yoke , And all become his Prey , We may well look to Rise by Him , But the clean contrary way . But GOD Preserve our KING so long , Till we secure our Peace ; Then we may Sing a Thankful Song , When all our Discords cease ; But while the Papists soar aloft How can we Sing or Play ? Ah lass our Comforts come to us , But the clean contrary way . Should Monmouth fallen Our Hope's would fail Of Comfort and of Aid , The PAPISTS think they might prevail In their Old PLOTTING Trade ; But let him Live to Vex them still And lodge them all in Clay , And let them find their Glory Rise , The clean contrary way . The Quakers now are Cramm'd in Goals , Because they will not Swear , The Presbyter and Baptists too , And Independant's here , Because they will not go to Church With Common-Prayer to Pray , It seems the Law must make them Rich The clean contrary way . Ten Thousand Protestants we find Are WHIGGS esteemed now , And all because they do not Mind At ALTARS for to Bow , If Papists Mount , then they must Fallen For all they look so Gay , And they must Rise both Great and Small The clean contrary way . But Heavens Protect our Sacred King , And send a PARLIAMENT , And then true Protestants may Sing And have their full Content ; The TORY Tribe will then be known And for their Roguery pay , And the POPE shall once more gain his Own The clean contrary way . No Doubt the Popish Tribe will say , A WHIGG did make this Song , By all that's good , I go to Church , They do my Muses wrong , But he's and Ass , will go to Mass To hear the Asses Bray , And he to Heaven in time will pass , The clean contrary way . LONDON , Printed for N. Whigg , 1682. H : 135884 A New BALLAD from WHIGG-LAND . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . BRave Monmouth's out of Favour now , The Lord knows what's the Cause ; I think , no one can justly say , He has transgressed the Laws : But yet the TORIES cry him down , Old Tony and Young Grey ; By this in time they'l gain Renown , But the clean contrary way . Stout Monmouth fought Rebellious Scots , And brought them on their Knees , He made the stubborn Necks to stoop Of Men of all Degrees ; But Bothwel-Bridge is now forgotten , And Mastricht's Storm they say , And his Honor's like to go to th' Pot , But the clean contrary way . He kept the PAPISTS all in Awe , Though now they strut like JAYES ; They valve neither Him nor Law , I speak it to their Praise ; But yet I hope the time will come , By Night or else by Day , When all his Foes shall gain their Ends , But the clean contrary way . ABHORRERS are the Blades of Fame , The Glory of the Land , They hate his Actions and his Name , And at defiance stand ; They trample on his Noble Acts , And truly well they may , For they are Mounting up we find , But the clean contrary way . The Papists now do gain their End , While Monmouth is run down , They seek to get their Popish Friend , Possessed o' th' English CROWN : But let them PLOT a thousand times , Their PLOTS will fail , I'll lay ; I hope indeed they'l Mount the Throne , But the clean contrary way . Where will ABHORRERS hide themselves When th' Parliament draws near ? L'Estrange , and THEY , and Thompson too , Will Hide themselves I fear , They'l fly like Chaff before the Wind For all their fine Array , They all will be preferr'd you'l find , But the clean contrary way . Brave Monmouth now is laid aside , As useless to the KING ; But yet it must not be denied , He made the Nation Ring ; He was the Glory of this Land , Next to the King , I say , But now it seems he has Command , The clean contrary way . Bad times will hardly mend I doubt , If PAPISTS come in Pow'r ; The POPE will have another bout Our Nation to devour ; And we may sink beneath his Yoke , And all become his Prey , We may well look to Rise by Him , But the clean contrary way . But GOD Preserve our KING so long , Till we secure our Peace ; Then we may Sing a Thankful Song , When all our Discords cease ; But while the Papists soar aloft How can we Sing or Play ? Ah lass our Comforts come to us , But the clean contrary way . Should Monmouth fallen Our Hope's would fail Of Comfort and of Aid , The PAPISTS think they might prevail In their Old PLOTTING Trade ; But let him Live to Vex them still And lodge them all in Clay , And let them find their Glory Rise , The clean contrary way . The Quakers now are Cramm'd in Goals , Because they will not Swear , The Presbyter and Baptists too , And Independant's here , Because they will not go to Church With Common-Prayer to Pray , It seems the Law must make them Rich The clean contrary way . Ten Thousand Protestants we find Are WHIGGS esteemed now , And all because they do not Mind At ALTARS for to Bow , If Papists Mount , then they must Fallen For all they look so Gay , And they must Rise both Great and Small The clean contrary way . But Heavens Protect our Sacred King , And send a PARLIAMENT , And then true Protestants may Sing And have their full Content ; The TORY Tribe will then be known And for their Roguery pay , And the POPE shall once more gain his Own The clean contrary way . No Doubt the Popish Tribe will say , A WHIGG did make this Song , By all that's good , I go to Church , They do my Muses wrong , But he's and Ass , will go to Mass To hear the Asses Bray , And he to Heaven in time will pass , The clean contrary way . LONDON , Printed for N. Whigg , 1682. 