H : 135867 THE WHIGGS LAMENTATION , For the Death of their Dear Brother College , The Protestant JOYNER . To the Tune of , Now , Now , the Fights Done , and the Great God of War , etc ( I ) BRave College is Hang'd , the Chief of our hope's , For pulling down Bishops , and making New Popes ; Our dear Brother Property crawls on the Ground , In Poland , K --- Anthony ne're will be Crown'd : For now their resolv'd , that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they will Burn the Old Rump . ( II ) Brave College , both Champion and Carver of Laws , Who died undaunted , and stuck to the Cause ; What mischief might thou , to the Godly have done Had thy daring Soul , dreaded the World to come ? And all thy dear Party to danger expos'd , If thou to the World , had thy secrets disclos'd . ( III . ) But now thou art Hang'd , and that fear is past , Were all that's in question as safe in the Nest ; Then we some new means , might consult or contrive , To drive on our purpose , to prosper or thrive : But the Popish PLOT , has now quite lost it's Name , And none thy bright Blunderbush dare to maintain . ( IV. ) What K --- but Great College , could er'e make a Pope Tho' he was or'e rul'd by the end of the Rope ? Great College , was certainly Jure Divino , When the Triple Crown , on the Popes Head did Shino . He burned him to Ashes , for pastime like Nero Then strait made a new one , such Power had our Hero . ( V. ) Great College , must certainly die a good Martyr , Being Knight of the Halter , and above the Garter ; Our dear Brother Statesman , tho' bred in a Sawpit , Had Internal Genius , enough to or'ethrow With He fram'd a new Model , to limit the K --- , In hope's Crown and Sceptre , might truckle to him . ( VI . ) Great Britain , ne're bred such a Brother as College , He made Seven Popes , in his Time on our knowledge ; Our Signals of Crimes , he put in the Popes Arms , Which prudent Contrivance , our Function Alarms . With threats in Petition , Kings Power to restrain , Yet Towser , and Broomstaff , rides Admiral again . ( VII . ) Great Hanibal's Conquest , nor Olivers Nose , Could with such small Slaughter , subdue such great Foes , As he in this three years , with help of our Party , Hath check't our three Kingdoms and Magnae Carta . The Head of our Church , and the Head of our Cause , He would have maintain'd them by Perjury and Blows . ( VIII . ) He now may be call'd , a third Saviour oth' Nation , To save his dear Church , he Renounced Salvation ; Like Famous Cargile , he dy'd for King Jesus , Defying Church Idols , enough to amaze us : He ty'd up together , both his and our Crimes , And dy'd like a Devil , to damp our Designs . ( IX . ) Our Case toth' Carrecter-men , we must refer To Shadwell , and Settle , to Curtis , and Carr. To know who Succeeds , our Late Captain the Joiner , He must be and Artist , some Carver , or Coyner , To make our Solemnity , and some New Popes , On which our dependency , hangs and our hope's . ( X. ) But when the time comes , that the Pope must be burn'd I fear we shall find that the Tide is much turn'd ? For the Tory Party , hath god so much ground , To Head a Rebellion there's none will be found ; For now they'r Resolved that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they'l burn the Old Rump . ( XI . ) Such a confused Monster , they swear they'l Compose Of all the Dissenters , that are the Kings Foes ; The Baptist , and Biter , the Pendant , and Quaker , From which they will draw such a prodigious Creature : More Diabolical Invective Far , Then all Popes Solemnity's at Temple-Barr . ( XII . ) Our Common-Councel lets Summon together , To Pannel pack't Jury's , Let's mak't our endeavour , For and Habeus Corpus , insist on our Power ; To fetch our Great Patriots out of the Tower ; And then we'le Dispute the Case , for Reformation , And make the Proud Torys Resign us the Nation LONDON , Printed for William Ring , in the year . 1681. H : 135867 THE WHIGGS LAMENTATION , For the Death of their Dear Brother College , The Protestant JOYNER . To the Tune of , Now , Now , the Fights Done , and the Great God of War , etc ( I ) BRave College is Hang'd , the Chief of our hope's , For pulling down Bishops , and making New Popes ; Our dear Brother Property crawls on the Ground , In Poland , K --- Anthony ne're will be Crown'd : For now their resolv'd , that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they will Burn the Old Rump . ( II ) Brave College , both Champion and Carver of Laws , Who died undaunted , and stuck to the Cause ; What mischief might thou , to the Godly have done Had thy daring Soul , dreaded the World to come ? And all thy dear Party to danger expos'd , If thou to the World , had thy secrets disclos'd . ( III . ) But now thou art Hang'd , and that fear is past , Were all that's in question as safe in the Nest ; Then we some new means , might consult or contrive , To drive on our purpose , to prosper or thrive : But the Popish PLOT , has now quite lost it's Name , And none thy bright Blunderbush dare to maintain . ( IV. ) What K --- but Great College , could er'e make a Pope Tho' he was or'e rul'd by the end of the Rope ? Great College , was certainly Jure Divino , When the Triple Crown , on the Popes Head did Shino . He burned him to Ashes , for pastime like Nero Then strait made a new one , such Power had our Hero . ( V. ) Great College , must certainly die a good Martyr , Being Knight of the Halter , and above the Garter ; Our dear Brother Statesman , tho' bred in a Sawpit , Had Internal Genius , enough to or'ethrow With He fram'd a new Model , to limit the K --- , In hope's Crown and Sceptre , might truckle to him . ( VI . ) Great Britain , ne're bred such a Brother as College , He made Seven Popes , in his Time on our knowledge ; Our Signals of Crimes , he put in the Popes Arms , Which prudent Contrivance , our Function Alarms . With threats in Petition , Kings Power to restrain , Yet Towser , and Broomstaff , rides Admiral again . ( VII . ) Great Hanibal's Conquest , nor Olivers Nose , Could with such small Slaughter , subdue such great Foes , As he in this three years , with help of our Party , Hath check't our three Kingdoms and Magnae Carta . The Head of our Church , and the Head of our Cause , He would have maintain'd them by Perjury and Blows . ( VIII . ) He now may be call'd , a third Saviour oth' Nation , To save his dear Church , he Renounced Salvation ; Like Famous Cargile , he dy'd for King Jesus , Defying Church Idols , enough to amaze us : He ty'd up together , both his and our Crimes , And dy'd like a Devil , to damp our Designs . ( IX . ) Our Case toth' Carrecter-men , we must refer To Shadwell , and Settle , to Curtis , and Carr. To know who Succeeds , our Late Captain the Joiner , He must be and Artist , some Carver , or Coyner , To make our Solemnity , and some New Popes , On which our dependency , hangs and our hope's . ( X. ) But when the time comes , that the Pope must be burn'd I fear we shall find that the Tide is much turn'd ? For the Tory Party , hath god so much ground , To Head a Rebellion there's none will be found ; For now they'r Resolved that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they'l burn the Old Rump . ( XI . ) Such a confused Monster , they swear they'l Compose Of all the Dissenters , that are the Kings Foes ; The Baptist , and Biter , the Pendant , and Quaker , From which they will draw such a prodigious Creature : More Diabolical Invective Far , Then all Popes Solemnity's at Temple-Barr . ( XII . ) Our Common-Councel lets Summon together , To Pannel pack't Jury's , Let's mak't our endeavour , For and Habeus Corpus , insist on our Power ; To fetch our Great Patriots out of the Tower ; And then we'le Dispute the Case , for Reformation , And make the Proud Torys Resign us the Nation LONDON , Printed for William Ring , in the year . 1681. H : 135867 THE WHIGGS LAMENTATION , For the Death of their Dear Brother College , The Protestant JOYNER . To the Tune of , Now , Now , the Fights Done , and the Great God of War , etc ( I ) BRave College is Hang'd , the Chief of our hope's , For pulling down Bishops , and making New Popes ; Our dear Brother Property crawls on the Ground , In Poland , K --- Anthony ne're will be Crown'd : For now their resolv'd , that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they will Burn the Old Rump . ( II ) Brave College , both Champion and Carver of Laws , Who died undaunted , and stuck to the Cause ; What mischief might thou , to the Godly have done Had thy daring Soul , dreaded the World to come ? And all thy dear Party to danger expos'd , If thou to the World , had thy secrets disclos'd . ( III . ) But now thou art Hang'd , and that fear is past , Were all that's in question as safe in the Nest ; Then we some new means , might consult or contrive , To drive on our purpose , to prosper or thrive : But the Popish PLOT , has now quite lost it's Name , And none thy bright Blunderbush dare to maintain . ( IV. ) What K --- but Great College , could er'e make a Pope Tho' he was or'e rul'd by the end of the Rope ? Great College , was certainly Jure Divino , When the Triple Crown , on the Popes Head did Shino . He burned him to Ashes , for pastime like Nero Then strait made a new one , such Power had our Hero . ( V. ) Great College , must certainly die a good Martyr , Being Knight of the Halter , and above the Garter ; Our dear Brother Statesman , tho' bred in a Sawpit , Had Internal Genius , enough to or'ethrow With He fram'd a new Model , to limit the K --- , In hope's Crown and Sceptre , might truckle to him . ( VI . ) Great Britain , ne're bred such a Brother as College , He made Seven Popes , in his Time on our knowledge ; Our Signals of Crimes , he put in the Popes Arms , Which prudent Contrivance , our Function Alarms . With threats in Petition , Kings Power to restrain , Yet Towser , and Broomstaff , rides Admiral again . ( VII . ) Great Hanibal's Conquest , nor Olivers Nose , Could with such small Slaughter , subdue such great Foes , As he in this three years , with help of our Party , Hath check't our three Kingdoms and Magnae Carta . The Head of our Church , and the Head of our Cause , He would have maintain'd them by Perjury and Blows . ( VIII . ) He now may be call'd , a third Saviour oth' Nation , To save his dear Church , he Renounced Salvation ; Like Famous Cargile , he dy'd for King Jesus , Defying Church Idols , enough to amaze us : He ty'd up together , both his and our Crimes , And dy'd like a Devil , to damp our Designs . ( IX . ) Our Case toth' Carrecter-men , we must refer To Shadwell , and Settle , to Curtis , and Carr. To know who Succeeds , our Late Captain the Joiner , He must be and Artist , some Carver , or Coyner , To make our Solemnity , and some New Popes , On which our dependency , hangs and our hope's . ( X. ) But when the time comes , that the Pope must be burn'd I fear we shall find that the Tide is much turn'd ? For the Tory Party , hath god so much ground , To Head a Rebellion there's none will be found ; For now they'r Resolved that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they'l burn the Old Rump . ( XI . ) Such a confused Monster , they swear they'l Compose Of all the Dissenters , that are the Kings Foes ; The Baptist , and Biter , the Pendant , and Quaker , From which they will draw such a prodigious Creature : More Diabolical Invective Far , Then all Popes Solemnity's at Temple-Barr . ( XII . ) Our Common-Councel lets Summon together , To Pannel pack't Jury's , Let's mak't our endeavour , For and Habeus Corpus , insist on our Power ; To fetch our Great Patriots out of the Tower ; And then we'le Dispute the Case , for Reformation , And make the Proud Torys Resign us the Nation LONDON , Printed for William Ring , in the year . 1681. H : 135867 THE WHIGGS LAMENTATION , For the Death of their Dear Brother College , The Protestant JOYNER . To the Tune of , Now , Now , the Fights Done , and the Great God of War , etc ( I ) BRave College is Hang'd , the Chief of our hope's , For pulling down Bishops , and making New Popes ; Our dear Brother Property crawls on the Ground , In Poland , K --- Anthony ne're will be Crown'd : For now their resolv'd , that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they will Burn the Old Rump . ( II ) Brave College , both Champion and Carver of Laws , Who died undaunted , and stuck to the Cause ; What mischief might thou , to the Godly have done Had thy daring Soul , dreaded the World to come ? And all thy dear Party to danger expos'd , If thou to the World , had thy secrets disclos'd . ( III . ) But now thou art Hang'd , and that fear is past , Were all that's in question as safe in the Nest ; Then we some new means , might consult or contrive , To drive on our purpose , to prosper or thrive : But the Popish PLOT , has now quite lost it's Name , And none thy bright Blunderbush dare to maintain . ( IV. ) What K --- but Great College , could er'e make a Pope Tho' he was or'e rul'd by the end of the Rope ? Great College , was certainly Jure Divino , When the Triple Crown , on the Popes Head did Shino . He burned him to Ashes , for pastime like Nero Then strait made a new one , such Power had our Hero . ( V. ) Great College , must certainly die a good Martyr , Being Knight of the Halter , and above the Garter ; Our dear Brother Statesman , tho' bred in a Sawpit , Had Internal Genius , enough to or'ethrow With He fram'd a new Model , to limit the K --- , In hope's Crown and Sceptre , might truckle to him . ( VI . ) Great Britain , ne're bred such a Brother as College , He made Seven Popes , in his Time on our knowledge ; Our Signals of Crimes , he put in the Popes Arms , Which prudent Contrivance , our Function Alarms . With threats in Petition , Kings Power to restrain , Yet Towser , and Broomstaff , rides Admiral again . ( VII . ) Great Hanibal's Conquest , nor Olivers Nose , Could with such small Slaughter , subdue such great Foes , As he in this three years , with help of our Party , Hath check't our three Kingdoms and Magnae Carta . The Head of our Church , and the Head of our Cause , He would have maintain'd them by Perjury and Blows . ( VIII . ) He now may be call'd , a third Saviour oth' Nation , To save his dear Church , he Renounced Salvation ; Like Famous Cargile , he dy'd for King Jesus , Defying Church Idols , enough to amaze us : He ty'd up together , both his and our Crimes , And dy'd like a Devil , to damp our Designs . ( IX . ) Our Case toth' Carrecter-men , we must refer To Shadwell , and Settle , to Curtis , and Carr. To know who Succeeds , our Late Captain the Joiner , He must be and Artist , some Carver , or Coyner , To make our Solemnity , and some New Popes , On which our dependency , hangs and our hope's . ( X. ) But when the time comes , that the Pope must be burn'd I fear we shall find that the Tide is much turn'd ? For the Tory Party , hath god so much ground , To Head a Rebellion there's none will be found ; For now they'r Resolved that Hearts shall be Trump , And the Prentices Swear , they'l burn the Old Rump . ( XI . ) Such a confused Monster , they swear they'l Compose Of all the Dissenters , that are the Kings Foes ; The Baptist , and Biter , the Pendant , and Quaker , From which they will draw such a prodigious Creature : More Diabolical Invective Far , Then all Popes Solemnity's at Temple-Barr . ( XII . ) Our Common-Councel lets Summon together , To Pannel pack't Jury's , Let's mak't our endeavour , For and Habeus Corpus , insist on our Power ; To fetch our Great Patriots out of the Tower ; And then we'le Dispute the Case , for Reformation , And make the Proud Torys Resign us the Nation LONDON , Printed for William Ring , in the year . 1681. 