H : 135912 The TORY BALLAD ON Their Royal Highnesses Return from Scotland . To the Tune of , The Prince of Orange's Delight . [ 1 ] ROom , room for Cavaliers , bring us more Wine , His Highness is Landed , about with the Glass ; The Brimigham-piece is but Counterfeit Coin , Yet fain for good Sterling among us wou'd pass . Hey Bowman , more Wine , Fill up to the Brim ; While Zealots repine We'll frolic and sing ; For Oats is confounded , That Turn-coated Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 2 ] A little Old Conjurer threw so much Brass , And Pewter and Copper among the True Coin , That hardly a Penny of Money can pass , But what is Clipped , Plated , or wash'd very fine ; But thine Boy , and mine , Bears the stamp of the KING ; Then let's have more Wine , While good Money we bring ; John Thum is confounded , That Brazen-fac'd Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 3 ] With such a Bold , Impudent and Brazenface They'd pass for true Mettle , although but wash'd o'r ; The KING's Stamp and Image they only disgrace , As they did their Lord and Creator's before ; But thine Boy , and mine , Bears the stamp of the KING , Then let's have more Wine , while good Money we bring ; For Care is Confounded , That Schismatic Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 4 ] Yet ( what is most noted ) these Brimigham Elves , To bear the True stamp are so brazen'd with Art , That they wou'd have nothing to pass but themselves , Although they're but Copper and Gaul at the heart . But thine Boy , and mine , Bears the stamp of the KING , Then let's have more Wine , While good Sterling we bring ; For Dick is confounded , That Libeling Round-head , Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 5 ] They call themselves Loyal , nay more , love the King , Yet Royalists Tory and Papist miscall ; And rail at all those who stand up for the Thing , With L'Estrange , Heraclitus and Thompson , and all : 'Gainst these the Slaves Their Libels they fling ; Yet they are the Knaves , That do Libel the KING ; But Langley's confounded , That Pamphleting Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 6 ] Thus Brimigham still the Stamp Royal rebukes , With Brazen-fac'd Impudence guilded so fine , Who hates the KING's Picture as well as the Duke's , And loves it in nothing , unless in his Coin ; But let him still pass For a counterfeit Thing , About with the Glass , And merrily sing ; For Ben's confounded , That Pillory'd Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 7 ] To the KING and the QUEEN , fill it it up to the Top , The Duke and the Duchess , whom Heav'n has restor'd ; And next , Hans in Kelder , the Royal Blew-Cap , To all the TRUE Issue , and each LOYAL LORD : Crown every Glass , Fill 'em up to the Brim : About let 'em pass , While we merrily sing ; For Baldwin's confounded , That impudent Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 8 ] To brave ALBEMARL the next we'l pursue , With Worster and Clarendon , Seymour , and Hall --- , To all to their KING , and their Country are True , Who Loyalty love , and confound the Caball . If Monarchy shine , And BOWMAN but bring Good store of brisk Wine , We'll make the Dog ring ; For TONY's confounded , That Spiggoted Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . LONDON : Printed for Nath. Thompson , MDCLXXXIIH : 135912 The TORY BALLAD ON Their Royal Highnesses Return from Scotland . To the Tune of , The Prince of Orange's Delight . [ 1 ] ROom , room for Cavaliers , bring us more Wine , His Highness is Landed , about with the Glass ; The Brimigham-piece is but Counterfeit Coin , Yet fain for good Sterling among us wou'd pass . Hey Bowman , more Wine , Fill up to the Brim ; While Zealots repine We'll frolic and sing ; For Oats is confounded , That Turn-coated Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 2 ] A little Old Conjurer threw so much Brass , And Pewter and Copper among the True Coin , That hardly a Penny of Money can pass , But what is Clipped , Plated , or wash'd very fine ; But thine Boy , and mine , Bears the stamp of the KING ; Then let's have more Wine , While good Money we bring ; John Thum is confounded , That Brazen-fac'd Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 3 ] With such a Bold , Impudent and Brazenface They'd pass for true Mettle , although but wash'd o'r ; The KING's Stamp and Image they only disgrace , As they did their Lord and Creator's before ; But thine Boy , and mine , Bears the stamp of the KING , Then let's have more Wine , while good Money we bring ; For Care is Confounded , That Schismatic Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 4 ] Yet ( what is most noted ) these Brimigham Elves , To bear the True stamp are so brazen'd with Art , That they wou'd have nothing to pass but themselves , Although they're but Copper and Gaul at the heart . But thine Boy , and mine , Bears the stamp of the KING , Then let's have more Wine , While good Sterling we bring ; For Dick is confounded , That Libeling Round-head , Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 5 ] They call themselves Loyal , nay more , love the King , Yet Royalists Tory and Papist miscall ; And rail at all those who stand up for the Thing , With L'Estrange , Heraclitus and Thompson , and all : 'Gainst these the Slaves Their Libels they fling ; Yet they are the Knaves , That do Libel the KING ; But Langley's confounded , That Pamphleting Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 6 ] Thus Brimigham still the Stamp Royal rebukes , With Brazen-fac'd Impudence guilded so fine , Who hates the KING's Picture as well as the Duke's , And loves it in nothing , unless in his Coin ; But let him still pass For a counterfeit Thing , About with the Glass , And merrily sing ; For Ben's confounded , That Pillory'd Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 7 ] To the KING and the QUEEN , fill it it up to the Top , The Duke and the Duchess , whom Heav'n has restor'd ; And next , Hans in Kelder , the Royal Blew-Cap , To all the TRUE Issue , and each LOYAL LORD : Crown every Glass , Fill 'em up to the Brim : About let 'em pass , While we merrily sing ; For Baldwin's confounded , That impudent Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . [ 8 ] To brave ALBEMARL the next we'l pursue , With Worster and Clarendon , Seymour , and Hall --- , To all to their KING , and their Country are True , Who Loyalty love , and confound the Caball . If Monarchy shine , And BOWMAN but bring Good store of brisk Wine , We'll make the Dog ring ; For TONY's confounded , That Spiggoted Round-head ; Then let us be Loyal , and True to our KING . LONDON : Printed for Nath. Thompson , MDCLXXXII 