H : 135896 The Whigg-Feas A SCOTCH BALLAD , made to the Tune of a new and pleasant Scotch Dance . I . WOons ! what no is the matter ? Good feth 'tis wondrous strange , The Whigs do keep sike a clatter , That nean can pass th' Exchange . They cry , 'Bread ! 'tis pity Their Numbers are no more , The DUKE does dine in the City , And muckle they fear His Power . They begin the awed Trick again , And cabal like Old-Nick again , Feast three hundred pound thick again , Sike a height they soar : Ah , bonny London ! thou 'rt undone , If e're thou art in their power . II Th' wise old E --- with the Spigot , That ne're knew rest or ease , Udsbread ! is grown sike a Bigot , The Nation has his Disease . More o' th' Tribe I can name you , That make this Rare-show , Bold George , and Politique Jemmy , Converted by Doctor TO . Both the Sheriffs there should would been , Then how merry they would would been , Met for National Good again , As they were before : Ah , bonny London ! thou 'rt undone , If long thou art in their power . III . More to show us what Ninneys Are all rebellious Beasts , The Cuckolds sent in their Guinneys , To make this Jolly Feast . Never caring , or thinking , What Insolence was done , Or that their Plotting and Drinking Should e're be oppos'd so soon . But when they knew they were barr'd again , They sent out the Black Guard again , All our Bonfires were marr'd again , Slaves did shout and roar : Ah , bonny London ! thou 'rt undone , If e're thou art in their power . IV. Right and Royalty governs , Which Rebels would overthrow ; They once were fatal to Sovereigns , Ah , let 'em no more be so ! But to baffle Oppression , Inspir'd by Fate Divine , Defend the Crown and Succession , And keep it in the Right Line . Every Soldier will fight for it , Each bold Genius will write for it , And the Whigs hang in spite for it , Losing Regal Power : And , bonny London , they're undone , That thought to usurp once more . London , Printed for Joseph Hindmarsh at the Black-Bull in Cornhill . 1682. H : 135896 The Whigg-Feas A SCOTCH BALLAD , made to the Tune of a new and pleasant Scotch Dance . I . WOons ! what no is the matter ? Good feth 'tis wondrous strange , The Whigs do keep sike a clatter , That nean can pass th' Exchange . They cry , 'Bread ! 'tis pity Their Numbers are no more , The DUKE does dine in the City , And muckle they fear His Power . They begin the awed Trick again , And cabal like Old-Nick again , Feast three hundred pound thick again , Sike a height they soar : Ah , bonny London ! thou 'rt undone , If e're thou art in their power . II Th' wise old E --- with the Spigot , That ne're knew rest or ease , Udsbread ! is grown sike a Bigot , The Nation has his Disease . More o' th' Tribe I can name you , That make this Rare-show , Bold George , and Politique Jemmy , Converted by Doctor TO . Both the Sheriffs there should would been , Then how merry they would would been , Met for National Good again , As they were before : Ah , bonny London ! thou 'rt undone , If long thou art in their power . III . More to show us what Ninneys Are all rebellious Beasts , The Cuckolds sent in their Guinneys , To make this Jolly Feast . Never caring , or thinking , What Insolence was done , Or that their Plotting and Drinking Should e're be oppos'd so soon . But when they knew they were barr'd again , They sent out the Black Guard again , All our Bonfires were marr'd again , Slaves did shout and roar : Ah , bonny London ! thou 'rt undone , If e're thou art in their power . IV. Right and Royalty governs , Which Rebels would overthrow ; They once were fatal to Sovereigns , Ah , let 'em no more be so ! But to baffle Oppression , Inspir'd by Fate Divine , Defend the Crown and Succession , And keep it in the Right Line . Every Soldier will fight for it , Each bold Genius will write for it , And the Whigs hang in spite for it , Losing Regal Power : And , bonny London , they're undone , That thought to usurp once more . London , Printed for Joseph Hindmarsh at the Black-Bull in Cornhill . 1682. 