H : 135895 The Parallel , Or a Comparison betwixt the Prince of Dark - ness , and the Children of Light , the True Protestants , and the Father of Lies . O All all you the Zealots of Country and Town , That in godly disguises walk up and Down ; Whom Ambition , or Folly , or Madness inspire , To Sing , Curse you Meroz , in Protestant Choir . That Invite one another by Tickets in Print , To dispute it by Claret and Arguments Dint ; By Gammons and Pasties , and Joles , to Define Whither Crown should descend in the right or wrong Line . Whither Princes may Reign , unless Rebels permit , Unless Coopers and Tapsters , and Upstarts think fit . Come hither , and Patiently hear what you Are , For of all things , you know not your own Character . And did you but know your selves to be such , Neither Pope nor the Devil could fright you , so much As your own Images , your selves would frigh So Cruel , so Arbitrary , so full of spite , That in each Lineament , of a Professor , You would Curse , and Cry out , of a Popish Successor . A Whig is old Lucifer in Masquerade , Old Satan and He , are both of a Trade : Both put on the shape of and Angel of Light , To Cheat and Cajole in a Garment of White ; Only this differs , in Devil and Saint , One is the Life of since , the other Pain The Devil can Cant and Whine , Pretend and Snevil , And Whigs are but Jack-Puddings to the Devil , He on the high Rope with a Pole does go , And in Chalk Jumps makes a more skilful show ; While they with Hob-nail-Impudence pretend , Their Master's Feats , without a Pole to mend . He Apes the Saints , and They the Devil Ape , They change and barter one another's Shape ; Only he cleverly his Pranks does Play , Conceals his Art in Sanctified Array . They in Satanic dress the Devil outdo , And are the grosser Hypocrites o' the two . In Treason and Sedition both conspire , Both dress the Plots i 'the same Hellish-fire . And may they both , defeated of their Aim , If neither Satan , nor his Imps Reclaim , Fry both together in that Rebels Flame . London , Printed for Walter Davies , 1682 , H : 135895 The Parallel , Or a Comparison betwixt the Prince of Dark - ness , and the Children of Light , the True Protestants , and the Father of Lies . O All all you the Zealots of Country and Town , That in godly disguises walk up and Down ; Whom Ambition , or Folly , or Madness inspire , To Sing , Curse you Meroz , in Protestant Choir . That Invite one another by Tickets in Print , To dispute it by Claret and Arguments Dint ; By Gammons and Pasties , and Joles , to Define Whither Crown should descend in the right or wrong Line . Whither Princes may Reign , unless Rebels permit , Unless Coopers and Tapsters , and Upstarts think fit . Come hither , and Patiently hear what you Are , For of all things , you know not your own Character . And did you but know your selves to be such , Neither Pope nor the Devil could fright you , so much As your own Images , your selves would frigh So Cruel , so Arbitrary , so full of spite , That in each Lineament , of a Professor , You would Curse , and Cry out , of a Popish Successor . A Whig is old Lucifer in Masquerade , Old Satan and He , are both of a Trade : Both put on the shape of and Angel of Light , To Cheat and Cajole in a Garment of White ; Only this differs , in Devil and Saint , One is the Life of since , the other Pain The Devil can Cant and Whine , Pretend and Snevil , And Whigs are but Jack-Puddings to the Devil , He on the high Rope with a Pole does go , And in Chalk Jumps makes a more skilful show ; While they with Hob-nail-Impudence pretend , Their Master's Feats , without a Pole to mend . He Apes the Saints , and They the Devil Ape , They change and barter one another's Shape ; Only he cleverly his Pranks does Play , Conceals his Art in Sanctified Array . They in Satanic dress the Devil outdo , And are the grosser Hypocrites o' the two . In Treason and Sedition both conspire , Both dress the Plots i 'the same Hellish-fire . And may they both , defeated of their Aim , If neither Satan , nor his Imps Reclaim , Fry both together in that Rebels Flame . London , Printed for Walter Davies , 1682 , 