H : 135900 AND ANSWER To the Pamphlet called , The Loyal Feas Or a true Description of His Majesties Deep-dy'd Scarlet Protestants : The true be - got Sons of the Whore of Babylon . To the same Tune . Sauney will never be my Love again . TOries are Tools of the Irish Raze , And well belov'd by Blades of the Town ; They've Irish Hearts , but and English Face , And Dammee and Huzza is all their tone . With Abhorring and Addressing their time is spent , Quaffing and Cursing , though all in vain : But the main thing they fear is and honest Parliament , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 2. Tories are made like Bristol Cans , Round and hollow , but I'le tell you more anon ; The Word is , Dammee Jack ! meet me at Sams ; There's honest Roger , and Flat-footed Tom , Huffing and swearing in Silk so fine , Black-Coats , Red-Coats , Lord and Swain ; E're long they'l Petition Caesar to resign , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 3. These are the Lads that fight the Pope's Cause , And all resolved , like pious good men , To hang by nothing but the Right Line and Laws , If the Pope and his Crew return not again ; Bristol's Tears and England's Woes , With Scotland's Groans , do tell us plain , They will not take the Oaths they impose , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 4. These are the Babes that wou'd shirk off the Plot , And under the Name of the Churches true Sons , Swear , Lie , and Sham , to have it forgotten ; But a Pox take the Fops , they talk not to Nuns . They'll They'll swear ( but who'll be thus deceiv'd ) That Godfrey murder'd himself 'tis plain ; But the Devil on't is , they cann't be believ'd , Because the Tory's a Rogue in Grain . 5. But hark ! sure I hear the noise of a Feast , Mars and his Sons , with a glorious Show , The thing's very true , though I took it for a Jeas But here pray observe how they march'd from Bow , O! the vast number , and well accoutr'd too : These Bonny Boys , with their gilstering Train ; But yet the hir'd Feathers , and Faggot Merchant's knew , That Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 6. The Board being spread with store of Flesh and Fish , The Fat Kid , Wine , and other things beside ; The French Mode observ'd , to garnish every Dish , and each Course serv'd up with Crucifix and Bred : Oaths Rot the Whigs , with Huzza's flew about ; But Slavery and Opppressions , there lay the Main , And all to please the Image of the Rout , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 7. Many fine Shows , and other pleasant Games , Were offer'd after all , to please Spectators Eyes ; The chiefest of which was London's fatal Flames ; May Curses still attend those that Mischief devise : These are the Saints , who plead Common-Good , Our Persons to secure , but their Intent is plain , To Crown us with Slavery , and christian us in Blood ; For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 8. God save the KING , and the true Royal James , Monmouth's Duke , and Tony , England's Friend , And all the Honest Souls , tho' I omit their Names ; May Mischief in earnest their Enemies attend : But for those Rogues , that Truths do oppose , And for Romes Cause , have play'd their Shams in vain ; Let Shame and Confusion be Plagues to all those , That are such Tories and Rogues in Grain . LONDON , Printed for J. Tacker , 1682. H : 135900 AND ANSWER To the Pamphlet called , The Loyal Feas Or a true Description of His Majesties Deep-dy'd Scarlet Protestants : The true be - got Sons of the Whore of Babylon . To the same Tune . Sauney will never be my Love again . TOries are Tools of the Irish Raze , And well belov'd by Blades of the Town ; They've Irish Hearts , but and English Face , And Dammee and Huzza is all their tone . With Abhorring and Addressing their time is spent , Quaffing and Cursing , though all in vain : But the main thing they fear is and honest Parliament , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 2. Tories are made like Bristol Cans , Round and hollow , but I'le tell you more anon ; The Word is , Dammee Jack ! meet me at Sams ; There's honest Roger , and Flat-footed Tom , Huffing and swearing in Silk so fine , Black-Coats , Red-Coats , Lord and Swain ; E're long they'l Petition Caesar to resign , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 3. These are the Lads that fight the Pope's Cause , And all resolved , like pious good men , To hang by nothing but the Right Line and Laws , If the Pope and his Crew return not again ; Bristol's Tears and England's Woes , With Scotland's Groans , do tell us plain , They will not take the Oaths they impose , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 4. These are the Babes that wou'd shirk off the Plot , And under the Name of the Churches true Sons , Swear , Lie , and Sham , to have it forgotten ; But a Pox take the Fops , they talk not to Nuns . They'll They'll swear ( but who'll be thus deceiv'd ) That Godfrey murder'd himself 'tis plain ; But the Devil on't is , they cann't be believ'd , Because the Tory's a Rogue in Grain . 5. But hark ! sure I hear the noise of a Feast , Mars and his Sons , with a glorious Show , The thing's very true , though I took it for a Jeas But here pray observe how they march'd from Bow , O! the vast number , and well accoutr'd too : These Bonny Boys , with their gilstering Train ; But yet the hir'd Feathers , and Faggot Merchant's knew , That Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 6. The Board being spread with store of Flesh and Fish , The Fat Kid , Wine , and other things beside ; The French Mode observ'd , to garnish every Dish , and each Course serv'd up with Crucifix and Bred : Oaths Rot the Whigs , with Huzza's flew about ; But Slavery and Opppressions , there lay the Main , And all to please the Image of the Rout , For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 7. Many fine Shows , and other pleasant Games , Were offer'd after all , to please Spectators Eyes ; The chiefest of which was London's fatal Flames ; May Curses still attend those that Mischief devise : These are the Saints , who plead Common-Good , Our Persons to secure , but their Intent is plain , To Crown us with Slavery , and christian us in Blood ; For Tory will still be a Rogue in Grain . 8. God save the KING , and the true Royal James , Monmouth's Duke , and Tony , England's Friend , And all the Honest Souls , tho' I omit their Names ; May Mischief in earnest their Enemies attend : But for those Rogues , that Truths do oppose , And for Romes Cause , have play'd their Shams in vain ; Let Shame and Confusion be Plagues to all those , That are such Tories and Rogues in Grain . LONDON , Printed for J. Tacker , 1682. 