H : 135901 The Coat of Arms of N.T. J.F. & R.L. And Answer to Thomson's Ballad call'd The Loyal Feast . A True Blue Protestant will never stain His good profession , for the hope's of gain : Most Loyal thou dost call them , and sayest true , For they're no such dissembling Knaves as you . The Whigs from North to South , from West to East Did all contribute to a Loyal Feast , To show their hatred to the Roman Beast . Eight Hundred Guineys were laid up in store , There would have been at least as many more , Such hatred we do bear the Roman Whore . This Feast was thrown aside , and nought but reason : Some did surmise a new Gun-Powder Treason , That cou'd not be suppos'd , for our good King , Does hide his Parliaments beneath his wing : He will not let them meet in any place , For fear of mischief from the Roman Raze . Let this be Sung to what tune Thomson pleases , but let the rest be to his own Tune , Sawny will ne're be my Love again . Tory is small and of no good raze , And is belov'd by very few ; He broaches his Shams in e'ry place , And that in time I hope he'l rue . He sends to Yeoman , Lord and Knight , His Roguish tricks to entertain : But Tory'l be hang'd , if he has but his right , Then Tory shall ne're be my Love again . He sends to the Devil for Plots good store , And they too oft do come to Town : His Tap does run for the Roman Whore ; The True Blue Protestants to drown . He sends to Room , and France , and Spain , To all the Papists in the Land , That they may bring in Plots amain . And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . At some great Houses in this Town , Tory did meet with a Jovial Crew , Of Traitorous Lords of high renown , Not one a Protestant True Blue . They threw in heeps of yellow boys , The dam'd Sham Plots for to maintain . Old Rowly their Treason now destroys , And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . They all ow'd duty to their Prince , And Loyal Subject's should have been : But their duty was all worn out long since , By their Plots we have too plainly seen . From Church to Chappel they did go , Their Popish guests to entertain , They sought to kill us at one blow , Now Tory sholl ne're be my Love again . The Duke They Love , but not the King , Can any tell a reason's why , Can any tale or tidings bring , Why they should raise the Duke so high ? They'd Crown him if they might have leave , And our good King they would have slave : These things do make the Nation grieve : And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . The bloody Papists shall no more , Contrive against Great Charles his Reign ; Though they have done it oft before , We will not let them do't again : Give them and inch they'le take and ell ; To work his ruin they're in pain , Their bloody actions comes from Hell , And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . A True Blue Protestant will pray , That Heav'n would still protect the King : And I am sure they'l all give way , For a Popish --- to take a Swing : But he that hope's Popes here shall fit , And Protestants shall all be slave : I hope his hope's will be besh --- And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . Fat Capons then shall fly about , With Frigacees of Ambergris , When we the Popish Tribe do Rout , And do enjoy our happy Peace , That Council shall not have a bit , That did our Peace so long restrain . Nor Popish Nat shall not lick the spit , No nor Tory shall ne're be my Love again . Le' Strange that Monckish Scribbling Fopp , That has abus'd the Kingdom so , Shall starve before he gets a Sop ; For he's a Tory Cur we know . A Priest shall feed upon a Pope , Till all the Tory Tribe are slave , Then we shall have our Peace I hope , And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . Dublin Printed for A. Banks . H : 135901 The Coat of Arms of N.T. J.F. & R.L. And Answer to Thomson's Ballad call'd The Loyal Feast . A True Blue Protestant will never stain His good profession , for the hope's of gain : Most Loyal thou dost call them , and sayest true , For they're no such dissembling Knaves as you . The Whigs from North to South , from West to East Did all contribute to a Loyal Feast , To show their hatred to the Roman Beast . Eight Hundred Guineys were laid up in store , There would have been at least as many more , Such hatred we do bear the Roman Whore . This Feast was thrown aside , and nought but reason : Some did surmise a new Gun-Powder Treason , That cou'd not be suppos'd , for our good King , Does hide his Parliaments beneath his wing : He will not let them meet in any place , For fear of mischief from the Roman Raze . Let this be Sung to what tune Thomson pleases , but let the rest be to his own Tune , Sawny will ne're be my Love again . Tory is small and of no good raze , And is belov'd by very few ; He broaches his Shams in e'ry place , And that in time I hope he'l rue . He sends to Yeoman , Lord and Knight , His Roguish tricks to entertain : But Tory'l be hang'd , if he has but his right , Then Tory shall ne're be my Love again . He sends to the Devil for Plots good store , And they too oft do come to Town : His Tap does run for the Roman Whore ; The True Blue Protestants to drown . He sends to Room , and France , and Spain , To all the Papists in the Land , That they may bring in Plots amain . And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . At some great Houses in this Town , Tory did meet with a Jovial Crew , Of Traitorous Lords of high renown , Not one a Protestant True Blue . They threw in heeps of yellow boys , The dam'd Sham Plots for to maintain . Old Rowly their Treason now destroys , And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . They all ow'd duty to their Prince , And Loyal Subject's should have been : But their duty was all worn out long since , By their Plots we have too plainly seen . From Church to Chappel they did go , Their Popish guests to entertain , They sought to kill us at one blow , Now Tory sholl ne're be my Love again . The Duke They Love , but not the King , Can any tell a reason's why , Can any tale or tidings bring , Why they should raise the Duke so high ? They'd Crown him if they might have leave , And our good King they would have slave : These things do make the Nation grieve : And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . The bloody Papists shall no more , Contrive against Great Charles his Reign ; Though they have done it oft before , We will not let them do't again : Give them and inch they'le take and ell ; To work his ruin they're in pain , Their bloody actions comes from Hell , And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . A True Blue Protestant will pray , That Heav'n would still protect the King : And I am sure they'l all give way , For a Popish --- to take a Swing : But he that hope's Popes here shall fit , And Protestants shall all be slave : I hope his hope's will be besh --- And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . Fat Capons then shall fly about , With Frigacees of Ambergris , When we the Popish Tribe do Rout , And do enjoy our happy Peace , That Council shall not have a bit , That did our Peace so long restrain . Nor Popish Nat shall not lick the spit , No nor Tory shall ne're be my Love again . Le' Strange that Monckish Scribbling Fopp , That has abus'd the Kingdom so , Shall starve before he gets a Sop ; For he's a Tory Cur we know . A Priest shall feed upon a Pope , Till all the Tory Tribe are slave , Then we shall have our Peace I hope , And Tory shall ne're be my Love again . Dublin Printed for A. Banks . 