H : 135904 The LOYAL FEAST , Design'd to be kept in Haberdashers-Hall , on Friday the 21st . of April 1682. By His Majesties most Loyal True Blue Protestant Subject's ; and how it was Defeated . The Whigs from North to South , from West to East , Did all Contribute to a LOYAL FEAST ; To this great work a GUINEY was the least . They clear'd the Stalls of Fish , Flesh , Fowl and Beast , Where Tony and brave Perkin was a Guest , But what Succeeded this , makes up the Jest . To the Tune of , Sawney will never be my Love again . ( 1. ) TONY was small , but of Noble Raze , And was beloved of ev'ry one ; He Broach'd his Tap , and it ran apace To make a Solemn Treat for all the Town . He sent to Yeoman , Knight , and Lord , The Holy Tribe to Entertain With all the Nation cou'd afford , But Tony will never be himself again . ( 2. ) He sent to the Shambles for all their Store , And left behind neither Fowl nor Beast ; The Spigot ran swift , and fain wou'd do more To make the Lords a Noble Feast ; He sent to Market , sent to Fair , His Loyal Guests to Entertain But of the Banquet he had no Share , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 3. ) At two great Halls in LONDON Town , Design'd to Meet a Jovial Crew Of Lords and Knights of High Renown , And all were Protestants True Blue . They Threw in Guineys free as Brass , The Noble Frolic to Maintain , But on Old Rowley the Sham wou'd not pass , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 4 ) With Duty to their Lawful Prince , A Loyal Subject every one ; To Pray for him is the Pretence , And then to Rail and Plot against the Crown . From Church they did intend to th' Hall , Their Noble Guests to Entertain ; But they were Routed , Horse and all , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 5. ) In favour of the King and Duke , The Heir-Apparent of the Throne , His Highness they Exclude , and took A Fop-Pretender of their own ; The meek Guide Moses they withstand , A Golden Calf to Entertain ; But Royal CHARLES he dispers'd the Band , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 6. ) The Bloody Papists shall no more Contrive against his Life and Reign : Tho' it was themselves did the Feat before , And are as ready for to do't again . Thus they Exclude the Rightful Heir , The Gaudy Fop to Entertain , But they were met by the good Lord Mayor , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 7. ) With thanks and Pray'rs for our good King They Vow'd to Sacrifice the Day ; But Royal Charles he smoak'd out the thing ; And sent the Rabble with a Pox away . He sent his Summons to the Cit , Seditious Meetings to Restrain , The Feast was broke , and the Guests were besh - . And Tony will never be himself again . ( 8. ) And now the Capons fly about , With Frigacees of Ambergris , And Chickens ready dressed they Shout About the Street , for pence apiece : The Whigs did wish the Council choak'd , Who did this Noble Feast restrain ; All down in the mouth to be thus bawk'd , Poor Tony will never be himself again . LONDON : Printed for Allen Banks , MDCLXXXII . H : 135904 The LOYAL FEAST , Design'd to be kept in Haberdashers-Hall , on Friday the 21st . of April 1682. By His Majesties most Loyal True Blue Protestant Subject's ; and how it was Defeated . The Whigs from North to South , from West to East , Did all Contribute to a LOYAL FEAST ; To this great work a GUINEY was the least . They clear'd the Stalls of Fish , Flesh , Fowl and Beast , Where Tony and brave Perkin was a Guest , But what Succeeded this , makes up the Jest . To the Tune of , Sawney will never be my Love again . ( 1. ) TONY was small , but of Noble Raze , And was beloved of ev'ry one ; He Broach'd his Tap , and it ran apace To make a Solemn Treat for all the Town . He sent to Yeoman , Knight , and Lord , The Holy Tribe to Entertain With all the Nation cou'd afford , But Tony will never be himself again . ( 2. ) He sent to the Shambles for all their Store , And left behind neither Fowl nor Beast ; The Spigot ran swift , and fain wou'd do more To make the Lords a Noble Feast ; He sent to Market , sent to Fair , His Loyal Guests to Entertain But of the Banquet he had no Share , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 3. ) At two great Halls in LONDON Town , Design'd to Meet a Jovial Crew Of Lords and Knights of High Renown , And all were Protestants True Blue . They Threw in Guineys free as Brass , The Noble Frolic to Maintain , But on Old Rowley the Sham wou'd not pass , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 4 ) With Duty to their Lawful Prince , A Loyal Subject every one ; To Pray for him is the Pretence , And then to Rail and Plot against the Crown . From Church they did intend to th' Hall , Their Noble Guests to Entertain ; But they were Routed , Horse and all , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 5. ) In favour of the King and Duke , The Heir-Apparent of the Throne , His Highness they Exclude , and took A Fop-Pretender of their own ; The meek Guide Moses they withstand , A Golden Calf to Entertain ; But Royal CHARLES he dispers'd the Band , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 6. ) The Bloody Papists shall no more Contrive against his Life and Reign : Tho' it was themselves did the Feat before , And are as ready for to do't again . Thus they Exclude the Rightful Heir , The Gaudy Fop to Entertain , But they were met by the good Lord Mayor , And Tony will never be himself again . ( 7. ) With thanks and Pray'rs for our good King They Vow'd to Sacrifice the Day ; But Royal Charles he smoak'd out the thing ; And sent the Rabble with a Pox away . He sent his Summons to the Cit , Seditious Meetings to Restrain , The Feast was broke , and the Guests were besh - . And Tony will never be himself again . ( 8. ) And now the Capons fly about , With Frigacees of Ambergris , And Chickens ready dressed they Shout About the Street , for pence apiece : The Whigs did wish the Council choak'd , Who did this Noble Feast restrain ; All down in the mouth to be thus bawk'd , Poor Tony will never be himself again . LONDON : Printed for Allen Banks , MDCLXXXII . 