H : 135921 THE LOYAL HEALTH . A Court Song , to a Delicate new Tune , called , At the Foot of a Willow , close under the Shade . [ 1. ] SInce Plotting's a Trade , Like the rest of the Nation : Let 'em Lie , and Swear on , To keep up the Vocation ; Let Tinkers , and Weavers , And Joiners agree , To find work for the Cooper , They'l have none of me ; Let Politic Shams , In the Statesman abound , While we quaff our Bumpers , And set the Glass round : The jolly true Toper's The best Subject still , Who drinks off his Liquour , And thinks no more ill . [ 2. ] Then let us stand to't , And like honest Men fallen , Who love King and Country , Duke , Duchess and all ; Not such as wou'd blow up The Nation by stealth , And out of the flame Raise a new Commonwealth : Nor such , who against Church And Bishops do rage , To advance old Jack Presbyter , On the new Stage . But to all honest Tories , Who'l fight for their King , And to Crown the brave Work , With the Court wee'l begin . [ 3. ] Here's a Health to the King , And his Lawful Successors , To honest Tantivies , And Loyal Addressors ; But a pox take all those , That promoted Petitions To Poison the Nation , And stir up Seditions ; Here's a Health to the Queen , And her Ladies of Honour , And a pox take all those , That put Sham-Plots upon her . Here's a Health to the Duke , And the Senate of Scotland , To all honest Men , That from Bishops ne're got-Land . [ 4. ] Here's a Health to L'estrange , And the boon Heraclitus : With true Tory Thompson Who never did slight us ; But confounding Broom , Paulin , And Alderman Wrightus , With Tony and Bethel , Ignoramus , and Titus : Here's a Health to the Church , And all those that are for it , Gonfusion to Zealots , And Whigs that abhor it ; May it ever be safe , From the new mode Refiners And Justice be done Upon Coopers and Joiners . [ 5. ] Here's a Health to old Hall ------ , Who our joys did restore ; And pox take each Popular Son of a Whore ; To the Spaniard and Dane , The brave Russian and Moor , Who come from far Nations , Our King to adore ; To all that do Worship , The God of the Vine , And to old Jolly Bowman Who draws us good Wine ; And as for all Traitors , Whither Baptist or Whig , May they all trot to Tyburn , To dance the old Jig . [ 6. ] Here's a Health to all those , Love the King and his Laws , And may th [ e ] y near Pledge it That Broach the Old Cause . Here's a Health to the State , And a Plague on the Pack Of Commonwealth Canters And Presbyter Jack ; To the uppermost pendent That ever did play On the highest Topgallant Oth' Sovereign oth' Sea ; And he that denies , To the Standard to lore , May he sink in the Ocean , And never Drink more . LONDON : Printed for A. Banks , MDCLXXXII . H : 135921 THE LOYAL HEALTH . A Court Song , to a Delicate new Tune , called , At the Foot of a Willow , close under the Shade . [ 1. ] SInce Plotting's a Trade , Like the rest of the Nation : Let 'em Lie , and Swear on , To keep up the Vocation ; Let Tinkers , and Weavers , And Joiners agree , To find work for the Cooper , They'l have none of me ; Let Politic Shams , In the Statesman abound , While we quaff our Bumpers , And set the Glass round : The jolly true Toper's The best Subject still , Who drinks off his Liquour , And thinks no more ill . [ 2. ] Then let us stand to't , And like honest Men fallen , Who love King and Country , Duke , Duchess and all ; Not such as wou'd blow up The Nation by stealth , And out of the flame Raise a new Commonwealth : Nor such , who against Church And Bishops do rage , To advance old Jack Presbyter , On the new Stage . But to all honest Tories , Who'l fight for their King , And to Crown the brave Work , With the Court wee'l begin . [ 3. ] Here's a Health to the King , And his Lawful Successors , To honest Tantivies , And Loyal Addressors ; But a pox take all those , That promoted Petitions To Poison the Nation , And stir up Seditions ; Here's a Health to the Queen , And her Ladies of Honour , And a pox take all those , That put Sham-Plots upon her . Here's a Health to the Duke , And the Senate of Scotland , To all honest Men , That from Bishops ne're got-Land . [ 4. ] Here's a Health to L'estrange , And the boon Heraclitus : With true Tory Thompson Who never did slight us ; But confounding Broom , Paulin , And Alderman Wrightus , With Tony and Bethel , Ignoramus , and Titus : Here's a Health to the Church , And all those that are for it , Gonfusion to Zealots , And Whigs that abhor it ; May it ever be safe , From the new mode Refiners And Justice be done Upon Coopers and Joiners . [ 5. ] Here's a Health to old Hall ------ , Who our joys did restore ; And pox take each Popular Son of a Whore ; To the Spaniard and Dane , The brave Russian and Moor , Who come from far Nations , Our King to adore ; To all that do Worship , The God of the Vine , And to old Jolly Bowman Who draws us good Wine ; And as for all Traitors , Whither Baptist or Whig , May they all trot to Tyburn , To dance the old Jig . [ 6. ] Here's a Health to all those , Love the King and his Laws , And may th [ e ] y near Pledge it That Broach the Old Cause . Here's a Health to the State , And a Plague on the Pack Of Commonwealth Canters And Presbyter Jack ; To the uppermost pendent That ever did play On the highest Topgallant Oth' Sovereign oth' Sea ; And he that denies , To the Standard to lore , May he sink in the Ocean , And never Drink more . LONDON : Printed for A. Banks , MDCLXXXII . 