H : 135917 THE NORWICH LOYAL LITANY . DEfend us from all Popish Plots , That so the People fray ; And eke also from Treacherous Scots , As bad or worse then they . From Parliaments long Rumps & Tails , From House of Commons Furies , Defend us eke from Protestant Flails , And Ignoramus Juries . Protect us now , and evermore , From a white Sheet and Proctor ; And from that Noble Peer brought o're The Salamancha Doctor . A Doctor with a Witness sure , Both in his Rise and Fallen : His Exit almost as obscure As his Original . Designs and Dangers far Remove , From this Distressed Nation , And Damn' the Traitorous Model of Bold Tony's Association . And may the Prick-Ear'd Party that Have Coin enough in Cupboard , Forbear to Shiver and Estate , And Splinters mount for Hobart . From sixteen self-conceited Peers , Protect our Sovereign still ; And from the Damn'd Petitioners , For the Exclusive Bill . Guard ( Heaven ) great Charles , & his Estate 'Gainst Tony upon Tony ; And from a House of Commons , that Will give the King no Money . From those that did design and laugh , At Tangier in Distress ; And were Mahometans worse by half , Then all the Moors of Fez. From such as with Usurping hand , Drive Princes to Extremes ; Confound all their Devices , and Deliver Charles , and James . But may the beauteous Youth come home , And do the thing that's fit , Or I must tell that Absalom , He has more Hair then Wit . May he be wise and soon expel Th' old Fox , th' old Fawning Elf ; The time draws nigh Achitophel , Shant need to hang himself , This Jury I've Empanel'd here , Of honest lines and true , Vhom you'l I doubt at Westminster , Find Ignoramus too . LONDON : Printed for A. Banks , MDCLXXXII . H : 135917 THE NORWICH LOYAL LITANY . DEfend us from all Popish Plots , That so the People fray ; And eke also from Treacherous Scots , As bad or worse then they . From Parliaments long Rumps & Tails , From House of Commons Furies , Defend us eke from Protestant Flails , And Ignoramus Juries . Protect us now , and evermore , From a white Sheet and Proctor ; And from that Noble Peer brought o're The Salamancha Doctor . A Doctor with a Witness sure , Both in his Rise and Fallen : His Exit almost as obscure As his Original . Designs and Dangers far Remove , From this Distressed Nation , And Damn' the Traitorous Model of Bold Tony's Association . And may the Prick-Ear'd Party that Have Coin enough in Cupboard , Forbear to Shiver and Estate , And Splinters mount for Hobart . From sixteen self-conceited Peers , Protect our Sovereign still ; And from the Damn'd Petitioners , For the Exclusive Bill . Guard ( Heaven ) great Charles , & his Estate 'Gainst Tony upon Tony ; And from a House of Commons , that Will give the King no Money . From those that did design and laugh , At Tangier in Distress ; And were Mahometans worse by half , Then all the Moors of Fez. From such as with Usurping hand , Drive Princes to Extremes ; Confound all their Devices , and Deliver Charles , and James . But may the beauteous Youth come home , And do the thing that's fit , Or I must tell that Absalom , He has more Hair then Wit . May he be wise and soon expel Th' old Fox , th' old Fawning Elf ; The time draws nigh Achitophel , Shant need to hang himself , This Jury I've Empanel'd here , Of honest lines and true , Vhom you'l I doubt at Westminster , Find Ignoramus too . LONDON : Printed for A. Banks , MDCLXXXII . 