H : 135918 A LITANY from GENEVA , In Answer to that from St. OMERS . FRom the Tap in the Guts of the Honourable Stump , From which runs Rebellion , that stinks like the Rump , On purpose to leaven the Factious Lump , Libera nos Domine . From him that aspires as high as the Crown , And vows to pull Copes and Cathedrals down , Fit only to govern the World in the Moon . Libera nos . From the Prick-ear'd Levite , that can without pain Swear Black into White , then Unswear it again ; Whose Name did design him a Villain in GRAIN , Libera nos . From his Black-Bills , and Pilgrim's with Sticks in their hands , That came to make a Religious Band , Then Ravish our Wives , and Inhabit our Land , Libera nos . From the Mouth of the City , that never gives o'r To complain of Oppressions unheard-of before , And yet for his Lechery will not quit score , Libera nos . From the Cent per Cent Scriv'ner , and all his State-tricks ; That crier out of Intemp'rance , who yet will not stick To clear a youg Spend-thrift's Estate at a lick , Libera nos . From the Force and the Fire of the Insolent Rabble , That wou'd hurl the Government into a Babel , And from the nice Fare of the Mouse-starver's Table , Libera nos . From the Elder in New-street , that Goggles and Cants , Then turns up his Whites , to nose it , and pant , And at the same time plays Devil and Saint , Libera nos . From Jenkin's Homilies drawn through the Nose , From Langley , Dick , Baldwin , and all such as those , And from Brawny Settle's Poem in Prose , Libera nos . From a Surfeit occasion'd by Protestant Feasts , From Sedition for Sauce , and Republics for Guests , With Treason for Grace-Cup , or Faction at least , Libera nos . From the Conscience of Cits , resembling their Dams , That in Private are Nice , but in Public so Tame , That they will not stick out for a Touch of that Same , Libera nos . From the blind Zeal of all Democratical Tools , From Whigland , , and all its Anarchical Rules , Devised by Knaves , and Imposed on Fools , Libera nos . From the Late Times Reviv'd , when Religion was gain , And Church-Plate was seiz'd for Relics Profane , Since practic'd by Searching Sir William again , Libera nos . From such Reformation where Zealots begun , To preach Heaven must by firm Bulwarks be wone , And Te Deum sung from the mouth of a Gun , Libera nos . From Parliamentarians , that out of their Love And Care for His Majesty's Safety , wou'd prove The securest way were His Guards to remove , Libera nos . From Saucy PETITIONS , that serve to inflame us , From all who for the ASSOCIATION are famous , From the Devil , the Doctor , and the Damn'd IGNORAMUS . Libera nos . LONDON , Printed for the use of all true Blue Brimighams , 1682. H : 135918 A LITANY from GENEVA , In Answer to that from St. OMERS . FRom the Tap in the Guts of the Honourable Stump , From which runs Rebellion , that stinks like the Rump , On purpose to leaven the Factious Lump , Libera nos Domine . From him that aspires as high as the Crown , And vows to pull Copes and Cathedrals down , Fit only to govern the World in the Moon . Libera nos . From the Prick-ear'd Levite , that can without pain Swear Black into White , then Unswear it again ; Whose Name did design him a Villain in GRAIN , Libera nos . From his Black-Bills , and Pilgrim's with Sticks in their hands , That came to make a Religious Band , Then Ravish our Wives , and Inhabit our Land , Libera nos . From the Mouth of the City , that never gives o'r To complain of Oppressions unheard-of before , And yet for his Lechery will not quit score , Libera nos . From the Cent per Cent Scriv'ner , and all his State-tricks ; That crier out of Intemp'rance , who yet will not stick To clear a youg Spend-thrift's Estate at a lick , Libera nos . From the Force and the Fire of the Insolent Rabble , That wou'd hurl the Government into a Babel , And from the nice Fare of the Mouse-starver's Table , Libera nos . From the Elder in New-street , that Goggles and Cants , Then turns up his Whites , to nose it , and pant , And at the same time plays Devil and Saint , Libera nos . From Jenkin's Homilies drawn through the Nose , From Langley , Dick , Baldwin , and all such as those , And from Brawny Settle's Poem in Prose , Libera nos . From a Surfeit occasion'd by Protestant Feasts , From Sedition for Sauce , and Republics for Guests , With Treason for Grace-Cup , or Faction at least , Libera nos . From the Conscience of Cits , resembling their Dams , That in Private are Nice , but in Public so Tame , That they will not stick out for a Touch of that Same , Libera nos . From the blind Zeal of all Democratical Tools , From Whigland , , and all its Anarchical Rules , Devised by Knaves , and Imposed on Fools , Libera nos . From the Late Times Reviv'd , when Religion was gain , And Church-Plate was seiz'd for Relics Profane , Since practic'd by Searching Sir William again , Libera nos . From such Reformation where Zealots begun , To preach Heaven must by firm Bulwarks be wone , And Te Deum sung from the mouth of a Gun , Libera nos . From Parliamentarians , that out of their Love And Care for His Majesty's Safety , wou'd prove The securest way were His Guards to remove , Libera nos . From Saucy PETITIONS , that serve to inflame us , From all who for the ASSOCIATION are famous , From the Devil , the Doctor , and the Damn'd IGNORAMUS . Libera nos . LONDON , Printed for the use of all true Blue Brimighams , 1682. 