H : 135923 A NEW BALLAD To the praise of JAMES Duke of Monmouth . He once was great , And to this Land did bring Triumphant Bays And Lautel to his KING . To the Tune of Now , now 'tis in vain . NOtwithstanding the Frowns That descends from the Crown , On my Lord that once was so dear , Prefer'd above other , Undone by a Brother , And the hate of and Uncle so near ; Yet let them tread on , And end as begun , My Love it shall never withdraw ; But in spite of all Fate In him I'le delight , For Monmouth's the flower of them all . Of great Places at Court , Turn'd him out for their Sport , Pretending that he soar'd too high ; Or fearing he might At last claim a Right , Became a great Beam in their Eyes . Cause the Mobely ran , And admir'd him each Man , And Welcom'd him with a Hazza , For who can do less Than love whom they Bless ? For Monmouth's the flower of them all . These Monsters of Room They first hatch't his doom , Because that he stood in their way , And stop't their carrire When their Plots did appear To make our Religion their Prey . Those other great Lords Are now all abhor'd , And term'd as great Monsters as he , By that Tory Crew Who has nothing to do But to Scandel brave Monmouth's Degree . May they Shimie like In Cursing Delight , Till the Fallen on their own Heads Rebound , And he like the Palms Suppressed , firmer stand , And the higher ascend from the Ground : For who can he be That's so happy as he , Who smilingly can so forgive , The abuses of Late Receiv'd from the State , Brave Monmouth be happy and Live . For the Heavens may grow clear And Great Charles appear , With the smiles of a Father as before ; As he promis'd to me He Ever would be And he my Great Monmouth Restore . To his Places of State That he may be Great , And his Enemies unmasked be , Who's Endeavoured to bring Him in disgrace with his King , Brave Monmouth I love none but thee . May thy Royal Father Sway the Sceptre for Ever , And flourishing Govern this Land , May the Turks and the Atheists , Presbyterians and Papists , Turn one and in Unity stand ; Then shall be firm Peace , From our Jars we shall Cease , In Church Government when we agree , And in the mean time , May the Crown keep the Line ; Brave Monmouth we hapier shall be . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Grantham , in Newstreet . 1682. H : 135923 A NEW BALLAD To the praise of JAMES Duke of Monmouth . He once was great , And to this Land did bring Triumphant Bays And Lautel to his KING . To the Tune of Now , now 'tis in vain . NOtwithstanding the Frowns That descends from the Crown , On my Lord that once was so dear , Prefer'd above other , Undone by a Brother , And the hate of and Uncle so near ; Yet let them tread on , And end as begun , My Love it shall never withdraw ; But in spite of all Fate In him I'le delight , For Monmouth's the flower of them all . Of great Places at Court , Turn'd him out for their Sport , Pretending that he soar'd too high ; Or fearing he might At last claim a Right , Became a great Beam in their Eyes . Cause the Mobely ran , And admir'd him each Man , And Welcom'd him with a Hazza , For who can do less Than love whom they Bless ? For Monmouth's the flower of them all . These Monsters of Room They first hatch't his doom , Because that he stood in their way , And stop't their carrire When their Plots did appear To make our Religion their Prey . Those other great Lords Are now all abhor'd , And term'd as great Monsters as he , By that Tory Crew Who has nothing to do But to Scandel brave Monmouth's Degree . May they Shimie like In Cursing Delight , Till the Fallen on their own Heads Rebound , And he like the Palms Suppressed , firmer stand , And the higher ascend from the Ground : For who can he be That's so happy as he , Who smilingly can so forgive , The abuses of Late Receiv'd from the State , Brave Monmouth be happy and Live . For the Heavens may grow clear And Great Charles appear , With the smiles of a Father as before ; As he promis'd to me He Ever would be And he my Great Monmouth Restore . To his Places of State That he may be Great , And his Enemies unmasked be , Who's Endeavoured to bring Him in disgrace with his King , Brave Monmouth I love none but thee . May thy Royal Father Sway the Sceptre for Ever , And flourishing Govern this Land , May the Turks and the Atheists , Presbyterians and Papists , Turn one and in Unity stand ; Then shall be firm Peace , From our Jars we shall Cease , In Church Government when we agree , And in the mean time , May the Crown keep the Line ; Brave Monmouth we hapier shall be . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Grantham , in Newstreet . 1682. 