H : 135936 A TORY in a Whig's Coa A New English BALLAD , To and Old Scotch Tune , Up with Ayley , etc [ 1 ] WHat ! still you Whigs uneasy ! Will nothing cool your Brain , Unless Great Charles , to please - you , Will let you drive his Wain ? Then up with Pr --- and O --- , And up with Knaves a pair ; But down with him that Votes Against a Lawful Heir . [ 2 ] Your Grievance is remov'd , Old Stafford's made a Saint , Though you but little prov'd , The Karle away is sent . Then up with all your spite , And show us what you mean ; I fear me , by this Light , You long to vent your Spleen . [ 3 ] That Peerless House of Commons , So zealous for the Lord , Meant ( piously ) with some on's To flesh the Godly's Sword : Then up with au the Leaven , With each Dissenting Loon , Then up with Bully Stephen ; But College is gone done . [ 4 ] What wou'd those Loons have had ? What makes 'em still to mutter ? I think thy're au gone mad , They keep so muckle clutter : Then up with P ------ and S --- , Another Blessed Pair ; And up with e'ry Brutus ; But chiefly Goatham's Mayor . [ 5 ] Our Salamanca-Priest Has left his Flock in haste ; And shrewdly is he missed ; Which makes us all agas Then up with Lads of worth , With Baldwin , Vile and Care ; For these must now hold forth , And Dick shall nose a Pray'r . [ 6 ] But is awr Parson gone ; And whither gone I trow ? What , back again to Spain ? Geud Faith e'n let him go : Then up with blundering S. The Tories Plague , I trow ; 'Tis he our Cause must bless With Characters , and so . --- [ 7 ] But scurvy Heraclitus , And Roger too , is rude , And Nat , who plagues poor Titus , Which makes us chew the Cud : Then up with Associations , Remonstrances and Libels ; 'Tis these must save Three Nations , And will preserve our Bibles . [ 8 ] The Polish Fox does seem To sleep his time away ; But his pernicious Dream Is ( only ) to Betray : Then up with How . the Mole , And many more that be ; But up with Little Pole Upon the highest Tree . [ 9 ] Hieraclitus is a Debtor , To some within the City , Who sent him sike a Letter , He'l pay them in a Ditty : Then up with au Dissenters , Up with 'em in a Car And up with him that ventures His Majesty to thwart . [ 10 ] But now Great YORK is come , ( Whom Heaven still be with ) You'll find ( both all and some ) 'Twas ill to show your Teeth : Then up with e'ry Round-head , And e'ry Factious Brother , You're Luck is now confounded , You au must up together . LONDON , Printed for Allen Banks , Anno Domini . 1682. H : 135936 A TORY in a Whig's Coa A New English BALLAD , To and Old Scotch Tune , Up with Ayley , etc [ 1 ] WHat ! still you Whigs uneasy ! Will nothing cool your Brain , Unless Great Charles , to please - you , Will let you drive his Wain ? Then up with Pr --- and O --- , And up with Knaves a pair ; But down with him that Votes Against a Lawful Heir . [ 2 ] Your Grievance is remov'd , Old Stafford's made a Saint , Though you but little prov'd , The Karle away is sent . Then up with all your spite , And show us what you mean ; I fear me , by this Light , You long to vent your Spleen . [ 3 ] That Peerless House of Commons , So zealous for the Lord , Meant ( piously ) with some on's To flesh the Godly's Sword : Then up with au the Leaven , With each Dissenting Loon , Then up with Bully Stephen ; But College is gone done . [ 4 ] What wou'd those Loons have had ? What makes 'em still to mutter ? I think thy're au gone mad , They keep so muckle clutter : Then up with P ------ and S --- , Another Blessed Pair ; And up with e'ry Brutus ; But chiefly Goatham's Mayor . [ 5 ] Our Salamanca-Priest Has left his Flock in haste ; And shrewdly is he missed ; Which makes us all agas Then up with Lads of worth , With Baldwin , Vile and Care ; For these must now hold forth , And Dick shall nose a Pray'r . [ 6 ] But is awr Parson gone ; And whither gone I trow ? What , back again to Spain ? Geud Faith e'n let him go : Then up with blundering S. The Tories Plague , I trow ; 'Tis he our Cause must bless With Characters , and so . --- [ 7 ] But scurvy Heraclitus , And Roger too , is rude , And Nat , who plagues poor Titus , Which makes us chew the Cud : Then up with Associations , Remonstrances and Libels ; 'Tis these must save Three Nations , And will preserve our Bibles . [ 8 ] The Polish Fox does seem To sleep his time away ; But his pernicious Dream Is ( only ) to Betray : Then up with How . the Mole , And many more that be ; But up with Little Pole Upon the highest Tree . [ 9 ] Hieraclitus is a Debtor , To some within the City , Who sent him sike a Letter , He'l pay them in a Ditty : Then up with au Dissenters , Up with 'em in a Car And up with him that ventures His Majesty to thwart . [ 10 ] But now Great YORK is come , ( Whom Heaven still be with ) You'll find ( both all and some ) 'Twas ill to show your Teeth : Then up with e'ry Round-head , And e'ry Factious Brother , You're Luck is now confounded , You au must up together . LONDON , Printed for Allen Banks , Anno Domini . 1682. 