H : 135935 ITER BOREALE , OR , Tyburn in Mourning For the Loss of a SAINT . A New Song , To the Tune of , Now the Toryes that Glories . Written by J.D. I . BEhold Great Heavens Protection , Jehovah Frowns for to see , Pretended Zeal Claim Election In Rights of Monarchy . Great Charles in Spite of all Treason , Preserves his Kingdoms in Peace ; He Rules by Law and by Reason , While Whigg melts in his own Grease : Ignoramus is out of Doors ; Fly , Oh fly , you Base Sons of Whores , Poland or Holland will hide such Boars , Who Rebellion have Sown : For nothing but Royalty , Loyalty , Shall in our Isle be known . II The Be --- ellites are in mourning , To see their Sire so Cold ; Zownes , who thought of adjourning A Zealot so Factious bold : To Prayers you Pestilent Whiggs , The Devil may hear you in time : What think you by Olivers Jig ? Gad , 't brings my Song into Rhyme . Hamburgh once again take thy own , Tyburn long for thy Son does Groan , Cromwel's disturb'd with her making moan , Curses the Sins brought him there : Then let us be Merry , drink Sherry , The Zealots no longer fear . III . Whine Louder the Priests of the Zealous , For Heaven is Deaf to your Prayers : Why do you Deceive us , and tell us , You Travel in Heavens Affairs ? What Saint e're came , or Professor From Grave , to teach to Dethrone Your Lawful King and Successor ? Whom next to Heaven we own . If these be Tricks of your Whiggish Tribe , No Saint will ever the Devil Chide ; Though in the bottom of Hell he Hide : Such Lovers of Kings the wrong way . Then Heigh Boys Trounce it and Bounce it , For Monarchy gets the Day . IV. Must Nine-penny Esquire be forgotten ; O! do not to memory bring Those Hamburgh Sayings , where hight ones ; Damn'd Rogue didst thou Murder the K --- ? Must still the Zealous o'r rule us ; Shall Council Gowns be above Majesty , Sword , Mace , then tell us Who better then Moor --- can Love . Loyalty burns within his Breast , Religion is his chief Interest ; The City he would with Peace Inves Was they not blinded with Zeal . Then Heigh Boys Laugh it and Quaff it , Let Moor --- to the King Appeal . V. Be gone base Sons of the Nation , That Love not the Power of Kings ; Go seek Dad Be --- el's new Station , 'Twill hold Ten thousand such Things : Go Mourn the since of Rebellion You would set up in the City ; Take with you , your New Friend Pa --- The rest of the Old Committee . Let Love and Loyalty once more Reign Within your Breasts , for great Charlemain , And for the Prince , that's come home again , Who our Peace will support . Then Heigh Boys Drink it , ne'r Shrink it , Here's a Health to the King and Court . LONDON , Printed for C. Tebroc , Anno Dom. 1682. H : 135935 ITER BOREALE , OR , Tyburn in Mourning For the Loss of a SAINT . A New Song , To the Tune of , Now the Toryes that Glories . Written by J.D. I . BEhold Great Heavens Protection , Jehovah Frowns for to see , Pretended Zeal Claim Election In Rights of Monarchy . Great Charles in Spite of all Treason , Preserves his Kingdoms in Peace ; He Rules by Law and by Reason , While Whigg melts in his own Grease : Ignoramus is out of Doors ; Fly , Oh fly , you Base Sons of Whores , Poland or Holland will hide such Boars , Who Rebellion have Sown : For nothing but Royalty , Loyalty , Shall in our Isle be known . II The Be --- ellites are in mourning , To see their Sire so Cold ; Zownes , who thought of adjourning A Zealot so Factious bold : To Prayers you Pestilent Whiggs , The Devil may hear you in time : What think you by Olivers Jig ? Gad , 't brings my Song into Rhyme . Hamburgh once again take thy own , Tyburn long for thy Son does Groan , Cromwel's disturb'd with her making moan , Curses the Sins brought him there : Then let us be Merry , drink Sherry , The Zealots no longer fear . III . Whine Louder the Priests of the Zealous , For Heaven is Deaf to your Prayers : Why do you Deceive us , and tell us , You Travel in Heavens Affairs ? What Saint e're came , or Professor From Grave , to teach to Dethrone Your Lawful King and Successor ? Whom next to Heaven we own . If these be Tricks of your Whiggish Tribe , No Saint will ever the Devil Chide ; Though in the bottom of Hell he Hide : Such Lovers of Kings the wrong way . Then Heigh Boys Trounce it and Bounce it , For Monarchy gets the Day . IV. Must Nine-penny Esquire be forgotten ; O! do not to memory bring Those Hamburgh Sayings , where hight ones ; Damn'd Rogue didst thou Murder the K --- ? Must still the Zealous o'r rule us ; Shall Council Gowns be above Majesty , Sword , Mace , then tell us Who better then Moor --- can Love . Loyalty burns within his Breast , Religion is his chief Interest ; The City he would with Peace Inves Was they not blinded with Zeal . Then Heigh Boys Laugh it and Quaff it , Let Moor --- to the King Appeal . V. Be gone base Sons of the Nation , That Love not the Power of Kings ; Go seek Dad Be --- el's new Station , 'Twill hold Ten thousand such Things : Go Mourn the since of Rebellion You would set up in the City ; Take with you , your New Friend Pa --- The rest of the Old Committee . Let Love and Loyalty once more Reign Within your Breasts , for great Charlemain , And for the Prince , that's come home again , Who our Peace will support . Then Heigh Boys Drink it , ne'r Shrink it , Here's a Health to the King and Court . LONDON , Printed for C. Tebroc , Anno Dom. 1682. 