H : 135957 MONMOUTH and BUCLEUGH's WELCOME FROM THE NORTH : OR THE Loyal Protestants Joy FOR HIS HAPPY RETURN . To the Tune of York and Albany's Welcome to England . 1. WHen stout young Jemmy went abroad To see the Northern Races , He met ten Thousands in the Road , That swore they were his Graces , They flock about him day and night , And made the Skies to ring And every one seem to delight In Monmouth and the King . 2. They tossed their Hats up to the Sky , The Bells' did sweetly found , God bless young James was all the cry , No other voice was found , By Bonfires they expressed their joy In every Town and City . We scarce could see one Tory-boy , Oh! was not that a pity . 3. Both Grey and Green , both old and young , The Rich as well as Poor , Had nought but Monmouth on their Tongue , In every Loyal Door , His Presence made them all rejoice , A Happy man was he , That could prevail with his loud voice , This Noble Duke to see . [ 4. ] A sullen look we could not find , Where ever Monmouth went The Nobles were exceeding kind , He gave them great content , His very Presence like the Sun , Did drive the Clouds away , Their Glory they did think begun , And blessed that Happy-day . [ 5. ] And then began the Royal-Cup To pass from hand to hand , And all with joy did Drink it up And wished us Peace i'th Land , The Music played , and some did Sing , The worst is past we hope , Long live Great Charles our Sacred King , The Devil confound the Pope . 6. But on a sudden there was seen A Popish Imp draw near , We partly guess where he had been , So soon as he came here , He cast a Cloud upon the Sun , And would not let it Shine , The Thread that thou for him haste Spun , About thy Neck may twine . 7. But now our Sun with much more Glory , Shoots forth his Golden Rays , And now in spite of every Tory , He has his former Praise , He shows much brighter than before Your envy makes him Shine , Bucleugh and Monmouth we adore , And scorn the Popish Line . 8. In King and Monmouth we delight , And for their lives we pray , It's they must do the Freeborn right , It's they and only they ; If they be for us , where's the evil That we can undergo , We fear no Duke , no Pope , nor Devil , Nor any other Foe . 9. Long may the King and his best Son , Be blessed with Joy and Peace , And may their Threads of life be Spun Till all our sorrows cease ; Nay may they live and never die , In everlasting Bliss , And may their Foes take Wings and fly To th' Arms of Pluto's Miss . 10. May their old Love new bud again , May Charles his Son embrace , Then we'l scorn Room , and France , and Spain , Our strength is in his Grace , If Father and the Son agree , Then Heaven is on our side , And then Old Pope , a fig for thee , That makes our Breach so wide . LONDON , Printed for Tho. Johnson , 1682. H : 135957 MONMOUTH and BUCLEUGH's WELCOME FROM THE NORTH : OR THE Loyal Protestants Joy FOR HIS HAPPY RETURN . To the Tune of York and Albany's Welcome to England . 1. WHen stout young Jemmy went abroad To see the Northern Races , He met ten Thousands in the Road , That swore they were his Graces , They flock about him day and night , And made the Skies to ring And every one seem to delight In Monmouth and the King . 2. They tossed their Hats up to the Sky , The Bells' did sweetly found , God bless young James was all the cry , No other voice was found , By Bonfires they expressed their joy In every Town and City . We scarce could see one Tory-boy , Oh! was not that a pity . 3. Both Grey and Green , both old and young , The Rich as well as Poor , Had nought but Monmouth on their Tongue , In every Loyal Door , His Presence made them all rejoice , A Happy man was he , That could prevail with his loud voice , This Noble Duke to see . [ 4. ] A sullen look we could not find , Where ever Monmouth went The Nobles were exceeding kind , He gave them great content , His very Presence like the Sun , Did drive the Clouds away , Their Glory they did think begun , And blessed that Happy-day . [ 5. ] And then began the Royal-Cup To pass from hand to hand , And all with joy did Drink it up And wished us Peace i'th Land , The Music played , and some did Sing , The worst is past we hope , Long live Great Charles our Sacred King , The Devil confound the Pope . 6. But on a sudden there was seen A Popish Imp draw near , We partly guess where he had been , So soon as he came here , He cast a Cloud upon the Sun , And would not let it Shine , The Thread that thou for him haste Spun , About thy Neck may twine . 7. But now our Sun with much more Glory , Shoots forth his Golden Rays , And now in spite of every Tory , He has his former Praise , He shows much brighter than before Your envy makes him Shine , Bucleugh and Monmouth we adore , And scorn the Popish Line . 8. In King and Monmouth we delight , And for their lives we pray , It's they must do the Freeborn right , It's they and only they ; If they be for us , where's the evil That we can undergo , We fear no Duke , no Pope , nor Devil , Nor any other Foe . 9. Long may the King and his best Son , Be blessed with Joy and Peace , And may their Threads of life be Spun Till all our sorrows cease ; Nay may they live and never die , In everlasting Bliss , And may their Foes take Wings and fly To th' Arms of Pluto's Miss . 10. May their old Love new bud again , May Charles his Son embrace , Then we'l scorn Room , and France , and Spain , Our strength is in his Grace , If Father and the Son agree , Then Heaven is on our side , And then Old Pope , a fig for thee , That makes our Breach so wide . LONDON , Printed for Tho. Johnson , 1682. 