H : 135947 A NEW POEM ON THE Excellency and Antiquity OF LAW and LAWYERS , AND Dedicated to his Mecenar and most worthy Patron and Professor thereof , the Learned and Accomplished William Peazly of the Middle Temple , London , Esq ; WHen the Wise God this Beaut'ous , World had laid , And , above all , Man in his Image made . He then to him very strictly gave a Law , To keep his Passion in good Plighted and Awe . From which great Law , we other Laws do make , For Equity , and for Conscience sake . That Man to his Fellow-Creature may be just , When that at any time , he in him put's trust . Were't not for this , he would do as he please , Fulfil's humour , and in each thing take's ease . Like the Tiger , fallen foul of all comes next , By Nature's , Preaching that should be the Text. But Law does frown on every Rebel still , To fright Offenders from their doing ill . So it keeps the World in Majesty and Might , It's like the Sun , it's full of glorious Light . It renders to Caesar , Caesar his goods , It gives to Ladies , their Scarfs and their Hoods . And the Countryman his Cow and his Calf , Does all to Perfection , does nothing by half . As the Moon drives the Ocean too and from , So does the Law govern Mortals hear below . All that we have , we have from her bright Face , Whither we are in Rags , or in Gold Lace . But who shall discuss it ? Some are appointed The Favorites of Heaven , and Heavens Anointed . The Students of that in which they are brought up , To eat in Loves Dish , and drink in Loves Cup. Men of Arts , and of Education high , Commonly of Blood , and of Nobility . It's pity that so brave a thing as Law , Should be follow'd by Magpie , or Jack-Daw . The Basely Born , or the Ignorant , I mean , A thing that should be still the Wits great Theam . But only such men as have power to do , Justice to themselves , and cure others of Wo. For a Lawyer is next to the Divine , As the Grape is appendant to the Vine . For when with a man his business has done , Out comes the Lawyer and beats on his Drum. The one for the Soul , the other for the Body , Both of which they should show a good Copy . The first our Morals for to learn us great , Th' other to keep our Riches and Estate . Like Midwives necessary in a Land , One has a healing , th' other a noble Hand . And for to cure the wounds of all us Men , As Father's do their dearest Children . Therefore to every Lawyer let's give way , For honour still will have it so , I say . And treat him here as we expect hereafter , To be treated beyond Lightning and Thunder . Where all just Men shall there arise and come , As day does flow after a setting Sun. For doing to others as we would be done by , Is both the Law and Prophets great on high . For so says the Oracle and it inchants , The hearts both of the Mean , and Gallants . Therefore live Divine and Lawyer till you die , For all once must go to Eternity . London , Printed by G.C. for the Author , 1682. H : 135947 A NEW POEM ON THE Excellency and Antiquity OF LAW and LAWYERS , AND Dedicated to his Mecenar and most worthy Patron and Professor thereof , the Learned and Accomplished William Peazly of the Middle Temple , London , Esq ; WHen the Wise God this Beaut'ous , World had laid , And , above all , Man in his Image made . He then to him very strictly gave a Law , To keep his Passion in good Plighted and Awe . From which great Law , we other Laws do make , For Equity , and for Conscience sake . That Man to his Fellow-Creature may be just , When that at any time , he in him put's trust . Were't not for this , he would do as he please , Fulfil's humour , and in each thing take's ease . Like the Tiger , fallen foul of all comes next , By Nature's , Preaching that should be the Text. But Law does frown on every Rebel still , To fright Offenders from their doing ill . So it keeps the World in Majesty and Might , It's like the Sun , it's full of glorious Light . It renders to Caesar , Caesar his goods , It gives to Ladies , their Scarfs and their Hoods . And the Countryman his Cow and his Calf , Does all to Perfection , does nothing by half . As the Moon drives the Ocean too and from , So does the Law govern Mortals hear below . All that we have , we have from her bright Face , Whither we are in Rags , or in Gold Lace . But who shall discuss it ? Some are appointed The Favorites of Heaven , and Heavens Anointed . The Students of that in which they are brought up , To eat in Loves Dish , and drink in Loves Cup. Men of Arts , and of Education high , Commonly of Blood , and of Nobility . It's pity that so brave a thing as Law , Should be follow'd by Magpie , or Jack-Daw . The Basely Born , or the Ignorant , I mean , A thing that should be still the Wits great Theam . But only such men as have power to do , Justice to themselves , and cure others of Wo. For a Lawyer is next to the Divine , As the Grape is appendant to the Vine . For when with a man his business has done , Out comes the Lawyer and beats on his Drum. The one for the Soul , the other for the Body , Both of which they should show a good Copy . The first our Morals for to learn us great , Th' other to keep our Riches and Estate . Like Midwives necessary in a Land , One has a healing , th' other a noble Hand . And for to cure the wounds of all us Men , As Father's do their dearest Children . Therefore to every Lawyer let's give way , For honour still will have it so , I say . And treat him here as we expect hereafter , To be treated beyond Lightning and Thunder . Where all just Men shall there arise and come , As day does flow after a setting Sun. For doing to others as we would be done by , Is both the Law and Prophets great on high . For so says the Oracle and it inchants , The hearts both of the Mean , and Gallants . Therefore live Divine and Lawyer till you die , For all once must go to Eternity . London , Printed by G.C. for the Author , 1682. 