H : 135952 A NEW SATYR , Written Against , LYING This reported about this Famous Town , There is a Man Pretending to the Gown . One that is Much given unto Lying , The highway to a Man's never dying . For which by all good Men he is blamed , And him in Question call'd and nam . That he should be giv'n to such folly , As each Whoremaster has his Trolly Lolly . A Gent the noble Picture of the brave , Such Company detests , they will not have . A Liar , being as bad as a Thief , Mushrooms , more fit for him , then powdered Beef . Romancers are , fitter Companions , for Knaves , Highway Men , Foot-pads , and such as lie in Caves . Then Men of sense , and Understanding high , Th' mighty Favorites , of the mighty Sky . A Talkative Fellow's , like and unbrac'd Drum , Talking the more , after a Glass of Mum . All his discourse avails so very small , It troubles the Hearers , and their Organs , all . For Gent love Men that they of wit should talk , Whereby in Conversations Grove to walk . Any , thing that's ingenious to be understood , Honours th' Blazing Star of the Purest blood . He walk'd to France , and lay with the French King , A Rope , he did , that's more a probable thing . Where he went for and English Marquis gay , So that the Ladies there , with him did play . And English-man's in esteem th' World over , From Turky to crose the Line to Dover . For Liars , they need to be well hung , With fine words , good memory , and a Song . Wore clothes , for seven years together , Strange some things , don't change in no kind of weather . Then running a Man through his Silk-Stockings fine , 'Twas ask'd by some , Gent noble , and Divine , How he perceived that they were Silk or no , Said , a Lifeguard-Man in Boots wore them you know . And answer strange to know silk through Boots , Like a Musician , plays on Violin and Lutes . A Liar like Angry Gamesters , drives at all , Having lost his Money , though it was but small . For he that gives himself to so base a thing , Turns Adder , and all Mankind does sting . Then for his Diet , 'tis ninepence every Meal , He loves flesh , but hates Fish and Tael . A Trencher Man , in that very complete , He knows his Stomach , and knows how to Eat . Like the [ w ] hale devours all the little Fry , From Mutton , Lamb , and so , to Pudding-Pye . He is a Poet too , now is his time , To answer this , for I have , divulg'd his crime . Answer he must , although it will be weak , Vice is a Coward , and out of doors , does creep . For what can a Man say , to a great Truth ? No more than for to say , Man has no Tooth . Which each person condemns from common sense , By Nature's light , and her intelligence . Whose Pictur's lately drawn , 'twas very foul , Of all Creatures , the likest to and Owl . One Monster beholding of another , The from of him , who is a younger Brother . As AEsops Crow , by th' Birds was hooted at , By every Cock , Mag-Pie , Chicken , and Cat. So is a Liar laughed at by Men , Like to a German-Goose , or a French-Hen . A Liar is a Traitor to his own Soul , Where will he go , when after Death must roll ? For a Romancer only deals with Fate , Rendering him unhappy , in his humane state . For a Man making it , his business to lie , Is neither fit to live , nor fit to die . Nor fit to mount to the blessed Joys on High , Where will he go , neither know You or I . HIS GHOST . Beware , beware you much untoward Fiend , Else you will come to and intimely end . Th' Oracle , Proclaiming against the Lying-Crew , They shall not enter th' Jerusalem New. But go to the Devil a pick a pack , To open Hell's Wares , crying , what do you lack ? Leave off the Vice , and you shall come in Again , To keep the Company of Gentlemen . But if your resolv'd to persevere indeed , Hell has its Chirurgeons for to make you Bleed . Launch Cut open , and mangle your poor Thigh , In its dark Regions to Eternity . London , Printed by G.C. for the Author , 1682. H : 135952 A NEW SATYR , Written Against , LYING This reported about this Famous Town , There is a Man Pretending to the Gown . One that is Much given unto Lying , The highway to a Man's never dying . For which by all good Men he is blamed , And him in Question call'd and nam . That he should be giv'n to such folly , As each Whoremaster has his Trolly Lolly . A Gent the noble Picture of the brave , Such Company detests , they will not have . A Liar , being as bad as a Thief , Mushrooms , more fit for him , then powdered Beef . Romancers are , fitter Companions , for Knaves , Highway Men , Foot-pads , and such as lie in Caves . Then Men of sense , and Understanding high , Th' mighty Favorites , of the mighty Sky . A Talkative Fellow's , like and unbrac'd Drum , Talking the more , after a Glass of Mum . All his discourse avails so very small , It troubles the Hearers , and their Organs , all . For Gent love Men that they of wit should talk , Whereby in Conversations Grove to walk . Any , thing that's ingenious to be understood , Honours th' Blazing Star of the Purest blood . He walk'd to France , and lay with the French King , A Rope , he did , that's more a probable thing . Where he went for and English Marquis gay , So that the Ladies there , with him did play . And English-man's in esteem th' World over , From Turky to crose the Line to Dover . For Liars , they need to be well hung , With fine words , good memory , and a Song . Wore clothes , for seven years together , Strange some things , don't change in no kind of weather . Then running a Man through his Silk-Stockings fine , 'Twas ask'd by some , Gent noble , and Divine , How he perceived that they were Silk or no , Said , a Lifeguard-Man in Boots wore them you know . And answer strange to know silk through Boots , Like a Musician , plays on Violin and Lutes . A Liar like Angry Gamesters , drives at all , Having lost his Money , though it was but small . For he that gives himself to so base a thing , Turns Adder , and all Mankind does sting . Then for his Diet , 'tis ninepence every Meal , He loves flesh , but hates Fish and Tael . A Trencher Man , in that very complete , He knows his Stomach , and knows how to Eat . Like the [ w ] hale devours all the little Fry , From Mutton , Lamb , and so , to Pudding-Pye . He is a Poet too , now is his time , To answer this , for I have , divulg'd his crime . Answer he must , although it will be weak , Vice is a Coward , and out of doors , does creep . For what can a Man say , to a great Truth ? No more than for to say , Man has no Tooth . Which each person condemns from common sense , By Nature's light , and her intelligence . Whose Pictur's lately drawn , 'twas very foul , Of all Creatures , the likest to and Owl . One Monster beholding of another , The from of him , who is a younger Brother . As AEsops Crow , by th' Birds was hooted at , By every Cock , Mag-Pie , Chicken , and Cat. So is a Liar laughed at by Men , Like to a German-Goose , or a French-Hen . A Liar is a Traitor to his own Soul , Where will he go , when after Death must roll ? For a Romancer only deals with Fate , Rendering him unhappy , in his humane state . For a Man making it , his business to lie , Is neither fit to live , nor fit to die . Nor fit to mount to the blessed Joys on High , Where will he go , neither know You or I . HIS GHOST . Beware , beware you much untoward Fiend , Else you will come to and intimely end . Th' Oracle , Proclaiming against the Lying-Crew , They shall not enter th' Jerusalem New. But go to the Devil a pick a pack , To open Hell's Wares , crying , what do you lack ? Leave off the Vice , and you shall come in Again , To keep the Company of Gentlemen . But if your resolv'd to persevere indeed , Hell has its Chirurgeons for to make you Bleed . Launch Cut open , and mangle your poor Thigh , In its dark Regions to Eternity . London , Printed by G.C. for the Author , 1682. 