H : 135946 A NEW SONG UPON THE K --- g of Poland , AND THE Prince of the Land of Promise , To a Theater Tune : Or , Hold fast thy Crown and Sceptre , Charles I Prince . O Poland Monster of our Isle , Corruption of our Age ; Which on my Infant Hours didst smile , 'Till thou inflam'd the Rage Of my Ambitious Soul , to soar 'Bove its defiled Sphere ; And , Icarus-like , I now must low'r , Transform'd into Despair . II Now all my Trophies of Success , Are in Oblivion drown'd ; And none for Me dare now Address , Where I hop't to be Crown'd . I by thy false blind Plots am sham'd , Fool'd from a Glorious Sway , Snatch't from a Father's Arms , and Damn'd , Like all that Disobey . III . Thou call'd my nearest Friends at Court , Soft , easy , absurd Tools ; That Kings were but for States-Men's Sport , The Council Knaves and Fools . But I , poor I , find now too late , Your Polish Grace can lie ; None prov'd more weak at the Foils of State , Than poor silly Tom , and I . VI . Now , that Imperial Crown , which thou For me so fit had made , Is Fallen and broke , I know not how , And all our Wiles betray'd ; Our full Cabals , and Wapping-Treats , Retrench't to Secret Holes : Treason the strength Our Greatness waits In these rough reared Walls . V. Poland K --- g . Thou mighty Prince , by me Elect , I'th Land of Promise Sways ; Thy timorous Soul is the Defect Of Our declining Days . What brighter Prospect Canst propose , To Magnify thy Name , Than Hearts , and Arms , and Power of Those , That Rules both Laws and Fame . VI . The Rustic Swains want not the Word , No Magazines , nor Horse ; 'Zwounds Sixty Thousand by the Sword , Defies both Fate and Curse . They'l lay Three Kingdoms at Our Feet , In Blood and mangled Brains ; Then the Traine-Bands , Cinque-Ports , and Fleet , At Our Command Remains . VII . Though Rouley , and His Brother Joins , And Wheel's around the Park ; Like two Yoak't Oxen , Tuggs and Twines , 'Gainst Our Designs i' th' Dark , And wisely weighs ; Their Wits has wrought Our Potent Parties Fallen ; That Conquest must be dearer brought , Else Tony Hangs for all . VIII . We have reserv'd Machines in store , To raise more daring Flames , Then Mortals 'ere Conspir'd before ; Or Damned Furies Frames . If 'ere a Parliament be call'd , Our Representives there Shall Scorn to be out box't , or bawl'd , In Country , Town , or Shire . IX . Then every Member of the Cause , Amid the Armed Rude , Who shall deside the Pole with blows , And quash the Tory Crow'd . Then stick to Time , while Heads are hight , Our Force together brings ; If this best PLOT , at last fail not , By Christ , we'le Both be Kings ! Printed for the Polonian King , in the Year 164800. H : 135946 A NEW SONG UPON THE K --- g of Poland , AND THE Prince of the Land of Promise , To a Theater Tune : Or , Hold fast thy Crown and Sceptre , Charles I Prince . O Poland Monster of our Isle , Corruption of our Age ; Which on my Infant Hours didst smile , 'Till thou inflam'd the Rage Of my Ambitious Soul , to soar 'Bove its defiled Sphere ; And , Icarus-like , I now must low'r , Transform'd into Despair . II Now all my Trophies of Success , Are in Oblivion drown'd ; And none for Me dare now Address , Where I hop't to be Crown'd . I by thy false blind Plots am sham'd , Fool'd from a Glorious Sway , Snatch't from a Father's Arms , and Damn'd , Like all that Disobey . III . Thou call'd my nearest Friends at Court , Soft , easy , absurd Tools ; That Kings were but for States-Men's Sport , The Council Knaves and Fools . But I , poor I , find now too late , Your Polish Grace can lie ; None prov'd more weak at the Foils of State , Than poor silly Tom , and I . VI . Now , that Imperial Crown , which thou For me so fit had made , Is Fallen and broke , I know not how , And all our Wiles betray'd ; Our full Cabals , and Wapping-Treats , Retrench't to Secret Holes : Treason the strength Our Greatness waits In these rough reared Walls . V. Poland K --- g . Thou mighty Prince , by me Elect , I'th Land of Promise Sways ; Thy timorous Soul is the Defect Of Our declining Days . What brighter Prospect Canst propose , To Magnify thy Name , Than Hearts , and Arms , and Power of Those , That Rules both Laws and Fame . VI . The Rustic Swains want not the Word , No Magazines , nor Horse ; 'Zwounds Sixty Thousand by the Sword , Defies both Fate and Curse . They'l lay Three Kingdoms at Our Feet , In Blood and mangled Brains ; Then the Traine-Bands , Cinque-Ports , and Fleet , At Our Command Remains . VII . Though Rouley , and His Brother Joins , And Wheel's around the Park ; Like two Yoak't Oxen , Tuggs and Twines , 'Gainst Our Designs i' th' Dark , And wisely weighs ; Their Wits has wrought Our Potent Parties Fallen ; That Conquest must be dearer brought , Else Tony Hangs for all . VIII . We have reserv'd Machines in store , To raise more daring Flames , Then Mortals 'ere Conspir'd before ; Or Damned Furies Frames . If 'ere a Parliament be call'd , Our Representives there Shall Scorn to be out box't , or bawl'd , In Country , Town , or Shire . IX . Then every Member of the Cause , Amid the Armed Rude , Who shall deside the Pole with blows , And quash the Tory Crow'd . Then stick to Time , while Heads are hight , Our Force together brings ; If this best PLOT , at last fail not , By Christ , we'le Both be Kings ! Printed for the Polonian King , in the Year 164800. 