H : 135974 Loyalty Triumphant ; OR , A Looking-Glass for Deceivers . Detracting Whigs , come here and take a view , For what is pen'd , is no more strange than true . Tune of , Let the Critics adore . LEt the Whigs ne'r adore Their old Grandees no more , they'r outdone , Sirs ! North and Rich are sworn in , Who care not a pin for ne'r a one , Sirs ! What these Rascals can do , Since there's a Lord Mayor too won't be wone , Sirs ! To do ought that is ill 'gainst the Church or the Crown ; Or to wink at their Meetings , but will pull them all down : Oh! the Whigs are stark mad at these Sherriffs and new Mayor ; And swear they could be glad that their Walloons were there . O the Whigs now lament , For you'l find the event of your Treason ; Since the King's full awake , He will make your hearts ache , all but reason ; That such Rake-hells as you , Give the Devil his endue , in this season , For protecting your Peer , by your damn'd Ignoramus ; For packing such Sheriffs , and such Juries to sham us ; For laying together your seditious pates , That will never look well , till on the City-Gates . To prevent such sad end , Be adviz'd by a Friend , tack about , Sirs ! And be not asham'd To wish those Rogues damn'd of the Rout , Sirs ! That won't out with their Chinck , The Kings Health to drink , sure they'r out , Sirs ! For if the Kings life had not preserv'd been , Such Traitors as these would surely have seen , A King justly rigid , or damn'd Commonwealth ; That would make them all wish they had drank the Kings Health . FINIS . Printed for W. Giles , 1682. H : 135974 Loyalty Triumphant ; OR , A Looking-Glass for Deceivers . Detracting Whigs , come here and take a view , For what is pen'd , is no more strange than true . Tune of , Let the Critics adore . LEt the Whigs ne'r adore Their old Grandees no more , they'r outdone , Sirs ! North and Rich are sworn in , Who care not a pin for ne'r a one , Sirs ! What these Rascals can do , Since there's a Lord Mayor too won't be wone , Sirs ! To do ought that is ill 'gainst the Church or the Crown ; Or to wink at their Meetings , but will pull them all down : Oh! the Whigs are stark mad at these Sherriffs and new Mayor ; And swear they could be glad that their Walloons were there . O the Whigs now lament , For you'l find the event of your Treason ; Since the King's full awake , He will make your hearts ache , all but reason ; That such Rake-hells as you , Give the Devil his endue , in this season , For protecting your Peer , by your damn'd Ignoramus ; For packing such Sheriffs , and such Juries to sham us ; For laying together your seditious pates , That will never look well , till on the City-Gates . To prevent such sad end , Be adviz'd by a Friend , tack about , Sirs ! And be not asham'd To wish those Rogues damn'd of the Rout , Sirs ! That won't out with their Chinck , The Kings Health to drink , sure they'r out , Sirs ! For if the Kings life had not preserv'd been , Such Traitors as these would surely have seen , A King justly rigid , or damn'd Commonwealth ; That would make them all wish they had drank the Kings Health . FINIS . Printed for W. Giles , 1682. 