H : 135976 A Congratulatory Poem ON His R. H's Entertainment in the City . ILlustrious Prince , Heroical and Great , Royal by Birth , with every Grace complete . Wisdom and Virtue both adorn that Breast , Fram'd for the Nations public Interest . At your Approach Joy sits on every brow : Know , Sir , the City does esteem you now . Loyalty so long banish'd from this Place , Returns with greater Splendour , sweeter Grace . The late dark Clouds of Ignorance are gone , And Faction that so spur'd the Rabble on . Popular Cheats appear in open view , And men begin to love their Prince and you . A Caesar's brother now hath Justice done , And shines more bright than the unclouded Sun. To you next him we will our Tribute pay , Scourge the dull Rout and teach them to obey . I make a Present of our Youngsters Hearts , Who'l die e're they'l submit to Traitors Arts. Successive Rights we with our Bloods will own , 'Gainst all Associators of the Town , Those Crack-brain'd Elves that level at the Crown . Kingdoms and Thrones , Hereditary are , Heaven hath decre'd it and shall Mortals bore To contradict what is determin'd there ? No , we know better things , but till that day We'l for your Health and Safety , hourly pray . LONDON : Printed for Joanna Brome , 1682. H : 135976 A Congratulatory Poem ON His R. H's Entertainment in the City . ILlustrious Prince , Heroical and Great , Royal by Birth , with every Grace complete . Wisdom and Virtue both adorn that Breast , Fram'd for the Nations public Interest . At your Approach Joy sits on every brow : Know , Sir , the City does esteem you now . Loyalty so long banish'd from this Place , Returns with greater Splendour , sweeter Grace . The late dark Clouds of Ignorance are gone , And Faction that so spur'd the Rabble on . Popular Cheats appear in open view , And men begin to love their Prince and you . A Caesar's brother now hath Justice done , And shines more bright than the unclouded Sun. To you next him we will our Tribute pay , Scourge the dull Rout and teach them to obey . I make a Present of our Youngsters Hearts , Who'l die e're they'l submit to Traitors Arts. Successive Rights we with our Bloods will own , 'Gainst all Associators of the Town , Those Crack-brain'd Elves that level at the Crown . Kingdoms and Thrones , Hereditary are , Heaven hath decre'd it and shall Mortals bore To contradict what is determin'd there ? No , we know better things , but till that day We'l for your Health and Safety , hourly pray . LONDON : Printed for Joanna Brome , 1682. 