H : 135978 A Congratulatory Poem TO THE MINISTERS SONS , on their Splendid FEAST , Thursday December 7th , 1682. REceive a bold unbidden Guest , among The least , the worst of all your Nobler throng , Who for admittance only dares to Sue , Because kind Fate has made him one of you . When that wise King , whose young , but mighty hand Boar the vast Sceptre of the Sacred Land , When him and all his Glories time shall rust , Then you shall be obscur'd with common Dust. In vain the trembling Atheist would dethrone That Power , which for his Life he dares not own ; While grateful Heaven its Servants here does grace With such a worthy , such a generous Raze . In vain on Inspiration t'other dotes , And humane Learning but a need-not Votes ; While he the Prophets Sons so far may find Beyond the usual stamp of Humane kind . More madly Room grants to the Sacred Life Dozens of Whores , but not one single Wife : Since from the holy Matrimonial Flame Of Priests , so great , so brave and Army came . All here look pure like Truth , like Virtue fair , And all breath something more than common Air . Envy look round , and when thy Bloodshot Eye Can find no Spot , Envy look round and die . But as for you , let Plenty pleasure bring , And Veil you safe beneath her gentle Wing , 'Till from long happy Ages you remove , And all your bright Forefathers meet above . LONDON , Printed by J.A. for John Dunton at the Black Raven in the Poultrey . 1682. H : 135978 A Congratulatory Poem TO THE MINISTERS SONS , on their Splendid FEAST , Thursday December 7th , 1682. REceive a bold unbidden Guest , among The least , the worst of all your Nobler throng , Who for admittance only dares to Sue , Because kind Fate has made him one of you . When that wise King , whose young , but mighty hand Boar the vast Sceptre of the Sacred Land , When him and all his Glories time shall rust , Then you shall be obscur'd with common Dust. In vain the trembling Atheist would dethrone That Power , which for his Life he dares not own ; While grateful Heaven its Servants here does grace With such a worthy , such a generous Raze . In vain on Inspiration t'other dotes , And humane Learning but a need-not Votes ; While he the Prophets Sons so far may find Beyond the usual stamp of Humane kind . More madly Room grants to the Sacred Life Dozens of Whores , but not one single Wife : Since from the holy Matrimonial Flame Of Priests , so great , so brave and Army came . All here look pure like Truth , like Virtue fair , And all breath something more than common Air . Envy look round , and when thy Bloodshot Eye Can find no Spot , Envy look round and die . But as for you , let Plenty pleasure bring , And Veil you safe beneath her gentle Wing , 'Till from long happy Ages you remove , And all your bright Forefathers meet above . LONDON , Printed by J.A. for John Dunton at the Black Raven in the Poultrey . 1682. 