H : 135968 THE Hypocritical WHIGG DISPLAYED . WHat shall a Glorious Nation be o'rthrown , By a Crew of Sneaking Rascals of our own ? Must Civil , and Ecclesiastic Laws ; Once Truckle more under the Good Old Cause ? Shall these Ungrateful Varlets think to Live Only to Clip the Kings Prerogative ? I'm all Inspir'd with a Poetic Rage , And must Chastise the Follies of the Age . Thoughts do so Crowd upon me , I must Write Till I've Displayed the Gawdy Hypocrite . He's one that scarcely can be call'd a Man ; And yet forsooth's a Pious Christian . He disesteems dull Morals for a Saint , ( My Well-beloved Brothers ) must not Wan Soul Warming Thoughts , so warm that they did dwell First in the Womb , then at the Breasts of Hell . With Eyes turn'd up , Mouth Screw'd , & Monkey Face , He Loudly Balls to God for Saving Grace , With such Unmanly , Scurvy Mean , as if even His Apish Postures only wou'd please Heaven . He Hates a From , but Loves his Dear Nonsense , Nauseates his God with his Impertinence . If things succeed not as his Humour wou'd , He straight grows Angry , and he Huffs his God . And this , as if God knows not what to do , And that wou'd have been for thy Glory too . Then Muffled in his Cloak , the Beast begins In's Sermon to Dawb forth Soul-Killing-Sins ; Murder , and Theft , and Pride , and Gluttony , Rash Oaths , and Vows , and Black Idolatry , Which in their Lives none more Applauds then he . Yet if you do Survey the List with Care ; You'l quickly find Rebellion is not there : Nay , when he's pressed to Duties for some Hours , He ne'r puts in Obey the Higher Powers . At Surplice , and Lawn-Sleeves he takes Offence , Because they are the Types of Innocence ; For that he Scorns , and with it Men of Sense . The Reverend Prelates he still Vilifies , 'Cause they Detect his Cursed Villainies : He shuns this Grave , and Learned Company , Because they smell too Rank of Loyalty . Hang them , says he , come let us Pull them Down , For this same Mitre will Support the Crown . He the Kings Person would Protect , he said , Yes , yes forsooth , by Cutting off his Head. He is the King's best Friend , and yet thought Good To Plunge his Kingdoms in a Sea of Blood . And this he did , Inspir'd by Zeal alone , To Fasten Christ in his Triumphant Throne ; As if Damn'd Lies , False Oaths , and Base Deceit Propped up his Throne , and made him truly Great . As if the Devil himself that Acted Them , Did bring the Lustre to his Diadem . Yea they go on , yet with the same Intents , By moulding to their Minds New Parliaments . In other things , like methods they pursue , For even the Sheriffs must be Fanatics too . The Judges too , they'd to their Party gain , Did they lack either Honesty or Brain . But when their Wheedling Tricks do fail on these , They do Attack poor Country Justices . Some of the Great they by their Whimsies Guide , To Guard their Treason , and to like their Pride . In fine , they are the Foes of Royal State , Order , and Peace the Object of their Hate . They all mankind , except themselves Despise ; Chiefly the Great , for being Good and Wise : Nor God , nor Man , these Furies seek to please ; They'd Bruise the Crown , and Tear our Surplices . Some Subtle have , and some have Giddy Souls ; Some Fools , some Knaves , & some are Knaves & Fools . These Vermin would even the best Things Command , And Suck up all the Fatness of the Land. FINIS . LONDON , Printed for C.H. Anno Domini 1682. H : 135968 THE Hypocritical WHIGG DISPLAYED . WHat shall a Glorious Nation be o'rthrown , By a Crew of Sneaking Rascals of our own ? Must Civil , and Ecclesiastic Laws ; Once Truckle more under the Good Old Cause ? Shall these Ungrateful Varlets think to Live Only to Clip the Kings Prerogative ? I'm all Inspir'd with a Poetic Rage , And must Chastise the Follies of the Age . Thoughts do so Crowd upon me , I must Write Till I've Displayed the Gawdy Hypocrite . He's one that scarcely can be call'd a Man ; And yet forsooth's a Pious Christian . He disesteems dull Morals for a Saint , ( My Well-beloved Brothers ) must not Wan Soul Warming Thoughts , so warm that they did dwell First in the Womb , then at the Breasts of Hell . With Eyes turn'd up , Mouth Screw'd , & Monkey Face , He Loudly Balls to God for Saving Grace , With such Unmanly , Scurvy Mean , as if even His Apish Postures only wou'd please Heaven . He Hates a From , but Loves his Dear Nonsense , Nauseates his God with his Impertinence . If things succeed not as his Humour wou'd , He straight grows Angry , and he Huffs his God . And this , as if God knows not what to do , And that wou'd have been for thy Glory too . Then Muffled in his Cloak , the Beast begins In's Sermon to Dawb forth Soul-Killing-Sins ; Murder , and Theft , and Pride , and Gluttony , Rash Oaths , and Vows , and Black Idolatry , Which in their Lives none more Applauds then he . Yet if you do Survey the List with Care ; You'l quickly find Rebellion is not there : Nay , when he's pressed to Duties for some Hours , He ne'r puts in Obey the Higher Powers . At Surplice , and Lawn-Sleeves he takes Offence , Because they are the Types of Innocence ; For that he Scorns , and with it Men of Sense . The Reverend Prelates he still Vilifies , 'Cause they Detect his Cursed Villainies : He shuns this Grave , and Learned Company , Because they smell too Rank of Loyalty . Hang them , says he , come let us Pull them Down , For this same Mitre will Support the Crown . He the Kings Person would Protect , he said , Yes , yes forsooth , by Cutting off his Head. He is the King's best Friend , and yet thought Good To Plunge his Kingdoms in a Sea of Blood . And this he did , Inspir'd by Zeal alone , To Fasten Christ in his Triumphant Throne ; As if Damn'd Lies , False Oaths , and Base Deceit Propped up his Throne , and made him truly Great . As if the Devil himself that Acted Them , Did bring the Lustre to his Diadem . Yea they go on , yet with the same Intents , By moulding to their Minds New Parliaments . In other things , like methods they pursue , For even the Sheriffs must be Fanatics too . The Judges too , they'd to their Party gain , Did they lack either Honesty or Brain . But when their Wheedling Tricks do fail on these , They do Attack poor Country Justices . Some of the Great they by their Whimsies Guide , To Guard their Treason , and to like their Pride . In fine , they are the Foes of Royal State , Order , and Peace the Object of their Hate . They all mankind , except themselves Despise ; Chiefly the Great , for being Good and Wise : Nor God , nor Man , these Furies seek to please ; They'd Bruise the Crown , and Tear our Surplices . Some Subtle have , and some have Giddy Souls ; Some Fools , some Knaves , & some are Knaves & Fools . These Vermin would even the best Things Command , And Suck up all the Fatness of the Land. FINIS . LONDON , Printed for C.H. Anno Domini 1682. 