H : 135967 TONY's Lamentation OR POTAPSKI's City-Case . BEING His Last Farewell to the Consecrated WHIGS : The Tune is , Let Oliver now be forgotten . ALas ! poor Unfortunate TONY , where now must thou hide thy old head ? That has not so much as one Crony dares own the great things thou hast said : Is this the thanks of the Nation , For thy Association , And Liberty , That Reformation , --------- which I prescrib'd to set you all free . Ungrateful unsensible Cullies , to leave your Decriped Patroon , Toth' merciless rage of the Bullies , and Tories in every Lampoon : Is then your City protection , And all the vow'd Affection , For your New Church , In such Distraction , That you will leave your Peer in the Lurch . How oft have I treated the Rabble , and made the poor Doctor to Peach ? Confusion to all which were able , and did not assist in the Breach : Are all your Butchers and Weavers , And Mobbily Believers , But while I treat Damn'd deceivers , What Fool by you can hope to be great ? How much did you praise and adore me , for Voting No York , No Lawn Sleeves ? And now to please those which abhor me , have set up two Protestant Sheriffs : If Oats should peach , I'le assure you , You'l hardly find such a Jury , As I have done , Think of the Fury , He once dicharg'd in Pickerings Gun. Remember the Keyhole , and Lin'd too , through which your Divine bravely swore , And think of the thing was design'd too , then tell me whose Vizage it wore : Were these such petty Inventions , And what the Authors did since , To be forgotten , Where's your Conscience ? If this can be , sure Nature's a Scot . Then farewell thou Treacherous City , for ever I'le bid thee adieu , Thou never wer't Honest and Witty , nor never to any side true : I see the end that you drive at , Which left your hope's arrive at , I have slunk away , To Hang in private , And rob the World of a Holiday . London , Printed for W. Griggs , in the Year , 1682. H : 135967 TONY's Lamentation OR POTAPSKI's City-Case . BEING His Last Farewell to the Consecrated WHIGS : The Tune is , Let Oliver now be forgotten . ALas ! poor Unfortunate TONY , where now must thou hide thy old head ? That has not so much as one Crony dares own the great things thou hast said : Is this the thanks of the Nation , For thy Association , And Liberty , That Reformation , --------- which I prescrib'd to set you all free . Ungrateful unsensible Cullies , to leave your Decriped Patroon , Toth' merciless rage of the Bullies , and Tories in every Lampoon : Is then your City protection , And all the vow'd Affection , For your New Church , In such Distraction , That you will leave your Peer in the Lurch . How oft have I treated the Rabble , and made the poor Doctor to Peach ? Confusion to all which were able , and did not assist in the Breach : Are all your Butchers and Weavers , And Mobbily Believers , But while I treat Damn'd deceivers , What Fool by you can hope to be great ? How much did you praise and adore me , for Voting No York , No Lawn Sleeves ? And now to please those which abhor me , have set up two Protestant Sheriffs : If Oats should peach , I'le assure you , You'l hardly find such a Jury , As I have done , Think of the Fury , He once dicharg'd in Pickerings Gun. Remember the Keyhole , and Lin'd too , through which your Divine bravely swore , And think of the thing was design'd too , then tell me whose Vizage it wore : Were these such petty Inventions , And what the Authors did since , To be forgotten , Where's your Conscience ? If this can be , sure Nature's a Scot . Then farewell thou Treacherous City , for ever I'le bid thee adieu , Thou never wer't Honest and Witty , nor never to any side true : I see the end that you drive at , Which left your hope's arrive at , I have slunk away , To Hang in private , And rob the World of a Holiday . London , Printed for W. Griggs , in the Year , 1682. 