H : 135979 AND HEROIC POEM UPON His Royal Highnes's ARRIVAL . HAil to great Neptune Monarch of the Sea ! Whose dread command the stubborn Winds obey . And hollow Storms that the clouds bowels tear , At his grave nod do dwindle into air . Hail to the powerful Beings of the Skies ! To the Winds God! and watery Deities ! Peace to your briny Region ; Mortals say ; And on your rocky Altars Incense lay : Since you grew kind , when equal was your power To save the perishing or to devour . But o the horror of the darkn'd main ! But worse the Treachery it did contain . Well might the Frigate sink , the Sailors cry'd When all the Water was Bewhiggify'd . When Sails conspir'd poor Seamen to undo , Nay every Rope was a Fanatic too . The Compass Presbyterian , which by fits Makes the Winds veer as do a Torie's Wits ; Poor Loyal Tories , the cursed Whiggish Helm Into the boundless Ocean did overwhelm ; One Curses Fate and Ships ; another raves : And 'stead of Whiggs do's fisticuff the Waves ; Another damming sinks , and swears he'l go To firk their Coxcombs in the Lake below . Perfidious Waves yet threat to trace the Sky , Contemn the Gods , and spit on Majesty ; Daring the Nymphs their actions to control Wildly upon their Watery axles roll . But kinder Heaven do's say it is its will The storm should cease , and bids the Sea be still ; Sends out it's Halcyon from the Ark above Which do's return with wreaths of grateful love . Heroic art ! to save a Monarchs Brother : But still one Deity is kind to t'other . Wellcome , great Sir to our too happy Land ; Wellcome from th' dire Fate of treacherous Sand ! At whose approach the Town does gently bow , And fawning Courtiers charm'd they know not how : It makes the duller Tories heart alive And dying Prosecutions to revive . Now rampant Tories drink , let full Bowls pass With Healths and Oaths to sweeten every Glass , And once again prepare a Sumptuous Feast To entertain the happy welcome Guest ; Prepare the dainties of the Watery main As Neptune's Present to his Glorious train . And every kind of Beasts that you are able , Except of Asses , ( those may wait at Table ; ) Damn'd Prodigality , when you're so Poor , To Feast your ------ , are forc't to starve your Whore : And most of you , one may be bold to Swear , For one days Feast are doom'd to Fast a year . Yet Swear the Whiggs are factious and debate In private Halls the overtures of State ; As true as you are Loyal , ( that's a Lie ) They are a people drown'd in Treachery : Swear with and Irish Brow and charming grace Their looks do speak Rebellion in their face . You have at Villainies a gracious wink , Tories may act what others dare not think : Let fly your Oaths , and ranting Curses too , The worst , we know , such Tools as you can do . London , Printed for J.B. 1682. H : 135979 AND HEROIC POEM UPON His Royal Highnes's ARRIVAL . HAil to great Neptune Monarch of the Sea ! Whose dread command the stubborn Winds obey . And hollow Storms that the clouds bowels tear , At his grave nod do dwindle into air . Hail to the powerful Beings of the Skies ! To the Winds God! and watery Deities ! Peace to your briny Region ; Mortals say ; And on your rocky Altars Incense lay : Since you grew kind , when equal was your power To save the perishing or to devour . But o the horror of the darkn'd main ! But worse the Treachery it did contain . Well might the Frigate sink , the Sailors cry'd When all the Water was Bewhiggify'd . When Sails conspir'd poor Seamen to undo , Nay every Rope was a Fanatic too . The Compass Presbyterian , which by fits Makes the Winds veer as do a Torie's Wits ; Poor Loyal Tories , the cursed Whiggish Helm Into the boundless Ocean did overwhelm ; One Curses Fate and Ships ; another raves : And 'stead of Whiggs do's fisticuff the Waves ; Another damming sinks , and swears he'l go To firk their Coxcombs in the Lake below . Perfidious Waves yet threat to trace the Sky , Contemn the Gods , and spit on Majesty ; Daring the Nymphs their actions to control Wildly upon their Watery axles roll . But kinder Heaven do's say it is its will The storm should cease , and bids the Sea be still ; Sends out it's Halcyon from the Ark above Which do's return with wreaths of grateful love . Heroic art ! to save a Monarchs Brother : But still one Deity is kind to t'other . Wellcome , great Sir to our too happy Land ; Wellcome from th' dire Fate of treacherous Sand ! At whose approach the Town does gently bow , And fawning Courtiers charm'd they know not how : It makes the duller Tories heart alive And dying Prosecutions to revive . Now rampant Tories drink , let full Bowls pass With Healths and Oaths to sweeten every Glass , And once again prepare a Sumptuous Feast To entertain the happy welcome Guest ; Prepare the dainties of the Watery main As Neptune's Present to his Glorious train . And every kind of Beasts that you are able , Except of Asses , ( those may wait at Table ; ) Damn'd Prodigality , when you're so Poor , To Feast your ------ , are forc't to starve your Whore : And most of you , one may be bold to Swear , For one days Feast are doom'd to Fast a year . Yet Swear the Whiggs are factious and debate In private Halls the overtures of State ; As true as you are Loyal , ( that's a Lie ) They are a people drown'd in Treachery : Swear with and Irish Brow and charming grace Their looks do speak Rebellion in their face . You have at Villainies a gracious wink , Tories may act what others dare not think : Let fly your Oaths , and ranting Curses too , The worst , we know , such Tools as you can do . London , Printed for J.B. 1682. 