H : 180159 EBEN EZER , As a Thankful Remembrance of Gods great good - ness unto the City of BRISTOLL , in preserving them from the Forces of Prince Rupert without , and a Treacherous plot within , to betray the City to them the seventh day of March 1642. T.P. dedicates this . Exod. 12.14 . And this day shall be unto you for a memorial . , ver . 42 . It is a night to be much observed unto the Lord . Judg. 5.11 . They that are delivered from the noise of Archers in the places of drawing water , there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of the Lord , even the righteous acts towards the inhabitants of his Villages in Israel . O Thou who dost excel the highest praise , Thou wonder-worker , life and length of days , Thou never-failer in the mount to thine , Only wise , present , in each place and time , What Brazen Colume , or what Marble stone , Shall we engrave thy noble Acts upon ? This act , thy strange act , counterplotting those Bloodthirsting ( Foreign and Domestic ) foes ? Oh native City how canst thou be still ? What would'st have more thy mouth with praise to fill ? Is health , or wealth , or plenty worth the having ? Or seed immortal , sent thee for soulsaving ? Or Life , that blessings make the rest to thee Matters of praise ? then sing a part with me . Septembers seventh was thankful for the Scots , And we not for our selves , whose lives by lots Like Hamans bloody prodigy was cast This present March ? it might have been our last ; The rising Sun might warm our frozen breast , More then a falling . Scots then , now we had rest . Startle the Muses , rattle up the Quires , Of sweetest Music , Citizens Bonfires , Let Bells , and Cannons roar , your joys expressing ; Young Men and Virgins , in your comely dressing , Away to Church in flocks , the touling Bell Toules now for Heaven , is not for death or Hell : Each street is echoing praise , the sword is stayed , The horned Rams in Isaaks place are laid : So let them perish and endure disgrace , That Traitors prove unto their native place . The King of heaven our gracious King preserve , But those that do his Grace pretend to serve , I wish they may prove upright , faithful , good , But for to plot to shed their Neighbours blood , As some have done , and in this plot would do , They prove no less then King and Kingdoms foe . O Prince of Peace , let it not seem too great , That Prince and Peers , and Peoples hearts may meet , And all in unity and peace as one , Built Zions walls , and down with Babylon , Till when , for mercies let us thankful be , And until then , never unbend our knee . So praise , and pray , and Fast and pray again , Until the God of Peace shall say Amen . Printed at London for Michael Spark senior , 1643. H : 180159 EBEN EZER , As a Thankful Remembrance of Gods great good - ness unto the City of BRISTOLL , in preserving them from the Forces of Prince Rupert without , and a Treacherous plot within , to betray the City to them the seventh day of March 1642. T.P. dedicates this . Exod. 12.14 . And this day shall be unto you for a memorial . , ver . 42 . It is a night to be much observed unto the Lord . Judg. 5.11 . They that are delivered from the noise of Archers in the places of drawing water , there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of the Lord , even the righteous acts towards the inhabitants of his Villages in Israel . O Thou who dost excel the highest praise , Thou wonder-worker , life and length of days , Thou never-failer in the mount to thine , Only wise , present , in each place and time , What Brazen Colume , or what Marble stone , Shall we engrave thy noble Acts upon ? This act , thy strange act , counterplotting those Bloodthirsting ( Foreign and Domestic ) foes ? Oh native City how canst thou be still ? What would'st have more thy mouth with praise to fill ? Is health , or wealth , or plenty worth the having ? Or seed immortal , sent thee for soulsaving ? Or Life , that blessings make the rest to thee Matters of praise ? then sing a part with me . Septembers seventh was thankful for the Scots , And we not for our selves , whose lives by lots Like Hamans bloody prodigy was cast This present March ? it might have been our last ; The rising Sun might warm our frozen breast , More then a falling . Scots then , now we had rest . Startle the Muses , rattle up the Quires , Of sweetest Music , Citizens Bonfires , Let Bells , and Cannons roar , your joys expressing ; Young Men and Virgins , in your comely dressing , Away to Church in flocks , the touling Bell Toules now for Heaven , is not for death or Hell : Each street is echoing praise , the sword is stayed , The horned Rams in Isaaks place are laid : So let them perish and endure disgrace , That Traitors prove unto their native place . The King of heaven our gracious King preserve , But those that do his Grace pretend to serve , I wish they may prove upright , faithful , good , But for to plot to shed their Neighbours blood , As some have done , and in this plot would do , They prove no less then King and Kingdoms foe . O Prince of Peace , let it not seem too great , That Prince and Peers , and Peoples hearts may meet , And all in unity and peace as one , Built Zions walls , and down with Babylon , Till when , for mercies let us thankful be , And until then , never unbend our knee . So praise , and pray , and Fast and pray again , Until the God of Peace shall say Amen . Printed at London for Michael Spark senior , 1643. 