H : 180161 The true Protestants humble Desires to the Kings most excellent Majesty . Or , Protestant-like Propositions for His Majesties perusal , tending to a safe and well-grounded Peace . With a Commination or Chorus of the People against those that desire it not . 1 THat your Majesty will be pleased to sign To nothing that may after cause All former Statutes to decline , And grate our Fundamental Laws . And your good Subject's shall daily pray , God preserve your Majesty . 2 That your Majesty would never let The Scottish Government be erected , For fear , lest when their Laws we get , We with their treasons be infected . 3 That your Majesty would never give The staff out of your hand again ; For though as slaves we will not live , Yet we will have a Sovereign . 4 That your Majesty , as you are sworn , Would maintain the Church in that good state , As your Forefathers did it adorn , And hath been taken away of late . 5 That your Majesty would graciously please To harken to none would innovate , For so we shall never cure our old disease , Occasioned by riots intemperate . 6 That your Majesty would please once more The simple people to instate With the Common Prayer Book , as before ; They are not for extempore prate . 7 That your Majesty would not yield , Your friends , who ventur'd their state and lives , Fighting for your honour in the field , Should be cut off , as their Enemy strives . 8 That your Majesty would please never to admit Any Committees , the plague of the Nation , Who ( while like Censors ) in chairs they do fit , Do wrack the poor Commons in grievous fashion 9 That your gracious Majesty would abhor The thought , to consent your Sisters Son , Brave Rupert should die , for maintaining a war , are every good Subject ought to have done . 10 That your Ma. would please that famous Newcastle Whose religion makes not his loyalty less : Who once for you even with Mavors did wrestle , May not loose his lands , be it he did transgress . 11 That your Majesty wou'd make Jockey to pay Interest on interest for that vast sum of gold Which he took for your person , but the other day When you to your better Subject's were sold . 12 That your Majesty would please , though we hate superstitions , Yet we may have one religion or other , Any thing but that of the English Precisians , And that of Jockeys our most deer Brother . 13 That your Majest . will please to have your old That is now behind for many years past , Due to be paid by your Parliament , Who are bound upon bound , to pay you at last . 14 That your Maj. will please again , when you get Your ships into your own hand , as you ought , Officers in them more trusty to set , Then those who assented for coin to be caught . 15 That your Maj. will please to give him his due That late hath infranchiz'd you from your con-finement , He deserves honour , that hath so helped you , Both in his own person , and by his designment . 16 That your M. would please the lands two eyes Now dim'd may be restor'd to their old wont , I mean the two famous Universities , And we not mistake a basin for a Font . 17 That your Majesty would please to call A Synod , a body of learned men , For ours in four years have done nothing at all , We are not the better for their purse , nor their pen 18 That your Maje . would please to send for the Prince , To avoid the imputation that some Cast on him , who say , he on purpose went hence Himself to ingratiate with the See of Rome . 19. That your Majesty would please to send for your Spouse , Who in France like a Turtle forsaken does moan , She cannot the least disturb either house , If she will , then why do not they lie alone , 20. That your Majesty would please by a Declaration The deluded Commons to undeceive , That you hate the acts of the Irish Nation , Contrary to that some would have them believe . 21. That your Majesty would please ne're to harken to those That would have the Laws in English translated So we may have bald Rhyme for very good Prose , And have our calamities still propagated . 22 That your M. would turn days of humiliation And our days of thanks for we know not wha With our strange Fast-daies for perturbation , For those which the Service-Book still pointeth at 23 We beseech your Majesty all qualifications Not herd of but lately , all negative swearing , All Protestations and foul Abjurations May never be licenc't again to have hearing . These things , great Sir , if you please to afford , We shall have a safe and well-grounded peace , All this is allowable by Gods holy Word , & if observ'd , may occasion our weal to increase . And your good Subject's shall daily pray , God preserve your Majesty . A Comination to be confirmed By a Chorus of the people . SInce that by Gods Command , we may Curse those that do the truth betray , Let us take up our curse and say , Cursed be he that hates the King , And would his State to ruin bring , And scorns to be wedded with a Ring . And all the people say Amen . Cursed be he the Queen that hates , And 'gainst the Privy Counsel prates , And does delight to cause debates . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he is Enemy Unto our harmless Liturgy , And to the Bishops Hierarchy . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed with a horrid curse be he , That would have the Scottish Presbytery For to take root in Britanie . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he that with hand and heart Does not take the Armies part 'Gainst those that would our Laws subvert . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he , or they , or all , Wish not his Majesty in White-hall , As great as ever before his fallen . And let all the people say Amen , Cursed be he would not the Queen Should once more with her Lord be seen , And in that pomp she once hath been . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he does not desire The Prince from France should now retire , For to behold his King and Sire . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he that does not use All means that may a peace produce , And does to lend his aid refuse . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be all Inscendiaries , Schismatics , and Sectaries , And all Inventors of new Fegaries . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he that does not pray The Excise may quite be taken away , And all Traitors to come to decay . And let all the people say Amen . FINIS . Anno 1647. H : 180161 The true Protestants humble Desires to the Kings most excellent Majesty . Or , Protestant-like Propositions for His Majesties perusal , tending to a safe and well-grounded Peace . With a Commination or Chorus of the People against those that desire it not . 1 THat your Majesty will be pleased to sign To nothing that may after cause All former Statutes to decline , And grate our Fundamental Laws . And your good Subject's shall daily pray , God preserve your Majesty . 2 That your Majesty would never let The Scottish Government be erected , For fear , lest when their Laws we get , We with their treasons be infected . 3 That your Majesty would never give The staff out of your hand again ; For though as slaves we will not live , Yet we will have a Sovereign . 4 That your Majesty , as you are sworn , Would maintain the Church in that good state , As your Forefathers did it adorn , And hath been taken away of late . 5 That your Majesty would graciously please To harken to none would innovate , For so we shall never cure our old disease , Occasioned by riots intemperate . 6 That your Majesty would please once more The simple people to instate With the Common Prayer Book , as before ; They are not for extempore prate . 7 That your Majesty would not yield , Your friends , who ventur'd their state and lives , Fighting for your honour in the field , Should be cut off , as their Enemy strives . 8 That your Majesty would please never to admit Any Committees , the plague of the Nation , Who ( while like Censors ) in chairs they do fit , Do wrack the poor Commons in grievous fashion 9 That your gracious Majesty would abhor The thought , to consent your Sisters Son , Brave Rupert should die , for maintaining a war , are every good Subject ought to have done . 10 That your Ma. would please that famous Newcastle Whose religion makes not his loyalty less : Who once for you even with Mavors did wrestle , May not loose his lands , be it he did transgress . 11 That your Majesty wou'd make Jockey to pay Interest on interest for that vast sum of gold Which he took for your person , but the other day When you to your better Subject's were sold . 12 That your Majesty would please , though we hate superstitions , Yet we may have one religion or other , Any thing but that of the English Precisians , And that of Jockeys our most deer Brother . 13 That your Majest . will please to have your old That is now behind for many years past , Due to be paid by your Parliament , Who are bound upon bound , to pay you at last . 14 That your Maj. will please again , when you get Your ships into your own hand , as you ought , Officers in them more trusty to set , Then those who assented for coin to be caught . 15 That your Maj. will please to give him his due That late hath infranchiz'd you from your con-finement , He deserves honour , that hath so helped you , Both in his own person , and by his designment . 16 That your M. would please the lands two eyes Now dim'd may be restor'd to their old wont , I mean the two famous Universities , And we not mistake a basin for a Font . 17 That your Majesty would please to call A Synod , a body of learned men , For ours in four years have done nothing at all , We are not the better for their purse , nor their pen 18 That your Maje . would please to send for the Prince , To avoid the imputation that some Cast on him , who say , he on purpose went hence Himself to ingratiate with the See of Rome . 19. That your Majesty would please to send for your Spouse , Who in France like a Turtle forsaken does moan , She cannot the least disturb either house , If she will , then why do not they lie alone , 20. That your Majesty would please by a Declaration The deluded Commons to undeceive , That you hate the acts of the Irish Nation , Contrary to that some would have them believe . 21. That your Majesty would please ne're to harken to those That would have the Laws in English translated So we may have bald Rhyme for very good Prose , And have our calamities still propagated . 22 That your M. would turn days of humiliation And our days of thanks for we know not wha With our strange Fast-daies for perturbation , For those which the Service-Book still pointeth at 23 We beseech your Majesty all qualifications Not herd of but lately , all negative swearing , All Protestations and foul Abjurations May never be licenc't again to have hearing . These things , great Sir , if you please to afford , We shall have a safe and well-grounded peace , All this is allowable by Gods holy Word , & if observ'd , may occasion our weal to increase . And your good Subject's shall daily pray , God preserve your Majesty . A Comination to be confirmed By a Chorus of the people . SInce that by Gods Command , we may Curse those that do the truth betray , Let us take up our curse and say , Cursed be he that hates the King , And would his State to ruin bring , And scorns to be wedded with a Ring . And all the people say Amen . Cursed be he the Queen that hates , And 'gainst the Privy Counsel prates , And does delight to cause debates . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he is Enemy Unto our harmless Liturgy , And to the Bishops Hierarchy . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed with a horrid curse be he , That would have the Scottish Presbytery For to take root in Britanie . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he that with hand and heart Does not take the Armies part 'Gainst those that would our Laws subvert . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he , or they , or all , Wish not his Majesty in White-hall , As great as ever before his fallen . And let all the people say Amen , Cursed be he would not the Queen Should once more with her Lord be seen , And in that pomp she once hath been . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he does not desire The Prince from France should now retire , For to behold his King and Sire . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he that does not use All means that may a peace produce , And does to lend his aid refuse . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be all Inscendiaries , Schismatics , and Sectaries , And all Inventors of new Fegaries . And let all the people say Amen . Cursed be he that does not pray The Excise may quite be taken away , And all Traitors to come to decay . And let all the people say Amen . FINIS . Anno 1647. 