H : 180178 A PANEGYRICK , Faithfully representing The proceedings of the PARLIAMENT at Westminster , since their first Sessions to this presen Wherein their wone - derfull Acts are truly declared ; And what is further by them to be expected . MOst gracious , Omnipotent , And everlasting Parliament , Whose power and Majesty Is greater then all Kings by odds ; Yea to account you less then Gods , Must needs be blasphemy . Moses and Aaron ne're did doe More wonders then are wrought by you For Englands Israel : But through the Red-Sea we have passed , If you to Canaan bring's at last , Is't not a miracle ? In sixe years space you have done more Then all our Parliaments before : You have quite done the work ; The Cavaliers , the King , the Pope , You have o'rethrowne , and next we hope You will confound the Turke . The heads of Strafford , and of Laud , You did cut off , because by fraud They would have made us slaves : But sure you were ten times more just , Who Carew and the Hotham's trust , For they were arrant knaves . By you we have deliverance From the designs of Spaine and France , Ormond , Montrosse , the Danes : You aided by our Brothers Scots , Defeated have malignant plots , And brought their Swords to Canes . What wholesome Laws have you ordain'd , Whereby our propertie's maintain'd 'Gainst those would us undo ? Yea both our fortune's and our lives , And what is dearer , ee'n our wives , Are wholly kept by you . O what a flourishing Church and State Have we enjoy'd ere since you sat ? What a glorious King , God save him , Have you now made His Majesty , Had he the grace but to comply , And do as you would have him ? When Hell was not enough to fright And make the Royal Party right , You wisely did invent That dreadful Tophet , Goldsmiths-hall , And Committees worse then Devil and all For their full punishment . Your Directory how to pray By th' Spirit shows the perfect way ; In zeal you have abolished That Dagon of the Common-prayer ; And next we see you will take care That Churches be demolished . What multitudes in every Trade Of painful Preachers you have made , Learned by revelation : Oxford and Cambridge make poor Preachers , Each Shop affords better Teachers : O blessed Reformation ! Your godly Wisdoms have found out The true Religion without doub For sure among so many , ( We have five hundred at the least , Is not the Gospel well increased ? ) One must be pure , if any . Could you have done more piously , Then fell Church-lands the King to buy , And stop the Cities plaints ? Paying the Scots Church-Militant , That the new Gospel help to plant , God knows they are poor Saints . Because th' Apostles Creed is lame , Th' Assembly do a better frame , Which saves us all with ease : Provided still we have the grace To believe th' two Houses i'th' first place , Let our works be what they please . 'Tis strange your pow'r and holiness Can't th' Irish Devil dispossess , His kind is very stou That though you do so often pray , And every Month keep Fasting-day You cannot get him out . Who will not pay with all his heart Excise ? the fifth , and twentieth part , Assessments , Taxes , Rates , 'Tis easy what both Houses leavy , Our duties to the King were heavy , But all we have's the States . For all your sufferings and your pains , What in the end shall be your gains , You never did regard : Some twenty thousand pounds a man , And Office too , alas who can Think that a fit reward ? Wherefore as soon as you're dissolv'd , To show our thanks we are resolv'd , The King himself engages , Another Parliament to call , Which your deserts consider shall , And surely pay your wages . FINIS . H : 180178 A PANEGYRICK , Faithfully representing The proceedings of the PARLIAMENT at Westminster , since their first Sessions to this presen Wherein their wone - derfull Acts are truly declared ; And what is further by them to be expected . MOst gracious , Omnipotent , And everlasting Parliament , Whose power and Majesty Is greater then all Kings by odds ; Yea to account you less then Gods , Must needs be blasphemy . Moses and Aaron ne're did doe More wonders then are wrought by you For Englands Israel : But through the Red-Sea we have passed , If you to Canaan bring's at last , Is't not a miracle ? In sixe years space you have done more Then all our Parliaments before : You have quite done the work ; The Cavaliers , the King , the Pope , You have o'rethrowne , and next we hope You will confound the Turke . The heads of Strafford , and of Laud , You did cut off , because by fraud They would have made us slaves : But sure you were ten times more just , Who Carew and the Hotham's trust , For they were arrant knaves . By you we have deliverance From the designs of Spaine and France , Ormond , Montrosse , the Danes : You aided by our Brothers Scots , Defeated have malignant plots , And brought their Swords to Canes . What wholesome Laws have you ordain'd , Whereby our propertie's maintain'd 'Gainst those would us undo ? Yea both our fortune's and our lives , And what is dearer , ee'n our wives , Are wholly kept by you . O what a flourishing Church and State Have we enjoy'd ere since you sat ? What a glorious King , God save him , Have you now made His Majesty , Had he the grace but to comply , And do as you would have him ? When Hell was not enough to fright And make the Royal Party right , You wisely did invent That dreadful Tophet , Goldsmiths-hall , And Committees worse then Devil and all For their full punishment . Your Directory how to pray By th' Spirit shows the perfect way ; In zeal you have abolished That Dagon of the Common-prayer ; And next we see you will take care That Churches be demolished . What multitudes in every Trade Of painful Preachers you have made , Learned by revelation : Oxford and Cambridge make poor Preachers , Each Shop affords better Teachers : O blessed Reformation ! Your godly Wisdoms have found out The true Religion without doub For sure among so many , ( We have five hundred at the least , Is not the Gospel well increased ? ) One must be pure , if any . Could you have done more piously , Then fell Church-lands the King to buy , And stop the Cities plaints ? Paying the Scots Church-Militant , That the new Gospel help to plant , God knows they are poor Saints . Because th' Apostles Creed is lame , Th' Assembly do a better frame , Which saves us all with ease : Provided still we have the grace To believe th' two Houses i'th' first place , Let our works be what they please . 'Tis strange your pow'r and holiness Can't th' Irish Devil dispossess , His kind is very stou That though you do so often pray , And every Month keep Fasting-day You cannot get him out . Who will not pay with all his heart Excise ? the fifth , and twentieth part , Assessments , Taxes , Rates , 'Tis easy what both Houses leavy , Our duties to the King were heavy , But all we have's the States . For all your sufferings and your pains , What in the end shall be your gains , You never did regard : Some twenty thousand pounds a man , And Office too , alas who can Think that a fit reward ? Wherefore as soon as you're dissolv'd , To show our thanks we are resolv'd , The King himself engages , Another Parliament to call , Which your deserts consider shall , And surely pay your wages . FINIS . 