H : 18315 The purgation of the right honourable lord Went - worth , concerning the crime laid to his charge , made the x of Januarie . Anno. M . D.L.viii . ALas where is the man , that lives and does not rue : To see how falsely I am charged , with things that be untrue . My service true is known , how ready I have be : Both with my body and my goods , to serve the King and Queen : And yet some have devised , to charge me with untruth : which evermore hath be my shield , even from my very youth . Alas to what intent , all eyes may easily see : That their devise and practice is , to make and end of me . Alas they seek my life , and not for my deserts : But by consent of wicked men , which have ungodly hearts . Suche have conspired my death , as now even so before : That I may say woe worth the time , that ever they were born . Alas there is no man , more innocent then I . And yet the wicked seek my life , and know no just cause why . For there is not a man , that liveth and hath breath : Can justly say for my untroth , that I am worthy death . Though they say what they please , as they can well devise : Yet all their travel in this thing , is known to be but lies . Alas what hearts have they , that cannot live conten Till they have spoiled the life of him , that is and innocent . As touching the said crime . or any part therein : I do protest for very thought , that I am void of sin . But this will not suffice , to mitigate their ire : Nor nothing else that can be said , will peas their long desire . Yet shall my truth appear , which they would fain conceal : And my obedience to the crown , and to the common weal . Though truth be now subject , unto a forward will : Yet shall it evermore appear , I never meant no ill . Either unto my Prince , to whom I am most bound : Nor yet unto the common weal , but it must needs be found . Wherefore I say alas , bewailing my estate : A noble peer , a subject true , rewarded thus with hate . And thus I make and end , with words that be unfaynde : Though I am now a prisoner , my truth cannot be staynde . God keep our noble Queen , God prosper her inten God shorten all her enemies days , or grant them to repent . This is the wished day , to see her in this place : God grant us true obedience . unto her noble grace . Finis quod John Markant . Imprinted at London by Owen Ro - gers , dwelling in Smithfield . Anno. M . D.L.ix . the xxviii of April . H : 18315 The purgation of the right honourable lord Went - worth , concerning the crime laid to his charge , made the x of Januarie . Anno. M . D.L.viii . ALas where is the man , that lives and does not rue : To see how falsely I am charged , with things that be untrue . My service true is known , how ready I have be : Both with my body and my goods , to serve the King and Queen : And yet some have devised , to charge me with untruth : which evermore hath be my shield , even from my very youth . Alas to what intent , all eyes may easily see : That their devise and practice is , to make and end of me . Alas they seek my life , and not for my deserts : But by consent of wicked men , which have ungodly hearts . Suche have conspired my death , as now even so before : That I may say woe worth the time , that ever they were born . Alas there is no man , more innocent then I . And yet the wicked seek my life , and know no just cause why . For there is not a man , that liveth and hath breath : Can justly say for my untroth , that I am worthy death . Though they say what they please , as they can well devise : Yet all their travel in this thing , is known to be but lies . Alas what hearts have they , that cannot live conten Till they have spoiled the life of him , that is and innocent . As touching the said crime . or any part therein : I do protest for very thought , that I am void of sin . But this will not suffice , to mitigate their ire : Nor nothing else that can be said , will peas their long desire . Yet shall my truth appear , which they would fain conceal : And my obedience to the crown , and to the common weal . Though truth be now subject , unto a forward will : Yet shall it evermore appear , I never meant no ill . Either unto my Prince , to whom I am most bound : Nor yet unto the common weal , but it must needs be found . Wherefore I say alas , bewailing my estate : A noble peer , a subject true , rewarded thus with hate . And thus I make and end , with words that be unfaynde : Though I am now a prisoner , my truth cannot be staynde . God keep our noble Queen , God prosper her inten God shorten all her enemies days , or grant them to repent . This is the wished day , to see her in this place : God grant us true obedience . unto her noble grace . Finis quod John Markant . Imprinted at London by Owen Ro - gers , dwelling in Smithfield . Anno. M . D.L.ix . the xxviii of April . 