H : 18322 And Epitaph upon the worthy and Honourable Lady , the Lady Knowles . DEeath with his Dart hath us bereft , A Gem of worthy fame , A Pearl of price , and Ouche of praise , the Lady Knowles by name . A Mirror pure of womanhood , a Bootresse and and a stay , To all that honest were , she was I say both lock and kaye . Among the Troops of Ladies all , and Dams of noble raze , She counted was , ( and was indeed ) in Lady Fortune's grace . In favour with our noble Queen , above the common sort , With whom she was in credit great , and bore a comely port . There seemed between our Queen & Death , Contention for to be , Which of them both more entire love , to her could testify . The one in state did her advance , and place in dignity , That men thereby might know , to do , what princes able be . Death made her free from worldly cark , from sickness , pain and strife , And hath been as a gate , to bring her to eternal life . By Death therefore she hath receiv'de , a greater boon I know : For she hath made a change , whose bliss , no mortal wight can show . She here hath lost the company , of Lords and Ladies brave , Of husband , Children , friends and kin , and Courtly states full grave . In Lieu whereof , she gained hath the blessed company Of Saints , Archangels , Patriarchs , and Angels in degree . With all the Troops Seraphical , which in the heavenly Bower , Melodiously with one accord , Ebuccinate Gods power . Thus are we sure : for in this world she led a life so right , That ill report could not distain , nor blemish her with spite . She traced had so cunningly , the path of virtues lore , Prefixing God omnipotent , her godly eyes before : And all her deeds precisely were , so ruled by reasons Squire , That all and some might her behold , from vice still to retire . The virtues all , the Muses nine , and Graces three agreed , To lodge within her noble breast , while she in Earth did feed . A head so straight and beautified , with wit and counsel sound , A mind so clean devoid of guile , is uneth to be found . But gone she is , and left the Stage of this most wretched life , Wherein she played a stately part , till cruel Fates with knife : Did cut the line of life in twaine , who shall not after go ? When time does come , we must all hence , Experience teaches so . Examples daily manifold , before our eyes we see , Which put us in remembrance , of our fragility . And bid us watch at every tide , for Death our lurking foe , Sith die we must , most certainly , but when , we do not know . Some which today are lusty Brutus's , of age and courage ripe , Tomorrow may be laid full low , by Death his grievous gripe . Respect and partiality of persons is there none , For King , or Kaiser , rich or poor , wise , foolish , all is one . God grant that we here left behind , this Ladies steps may tread , To live so well , to die no worse , Amen , as I have said . Then maugre Death , we shall be sure , when corpse in earth is closed , Among the joys celestial , our Soul shall be reposed . FINIS . Tho. Newton . Imprinted at London in Fleetstreete , by William How , for Ri - charde Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop under the Lottery house . H : 18322 And Epitaph upon the worthy and Honourable Lady , the Lady Knowles . DEeath with his Dart hath us bereft , A Gem of worthy fame , A Pearl of price , and Ouche of praise , the Lady Knowles by name . A Mirror pure of womanhood , a Bootresse and and a stay , To all that honest were , she was I say both lock and kaye . Among the Troops of Ladies all , and Dams of noble raze , She counted was , ( and was indeed ) in Lady Fortune's grace . In favour with our noble Queen , above the common sort , With whom she was in credit great , and bore a comely port . There seemed between our Queen & Death , Contention for to be , Which of them both more entire love , to her could testify . The one in state did her advance , and place in dignity , That men thereby might know , to do , what princes able be . Death made her free from worldly cark , from sickness , pain and strife , And hath been as a gate , to bring her to eternal life . By Death therefore she hath receiv'de , a greater boon I know : For she hath made a change , whose bliss , no mortal wight can show . She here hath lost the company , of Lords and Ladies brave , Of husband , Children , friends and kin , and Courtly states full grave . In Lieu whereof , she gained hath the blessed company Of Saints , Archangels , Patriarchs , and Angels in degree . With all the Troops Seraphical , which in the heavenly Bower , Melodiously with one accord , Ebuccinate Gods power . Thus are we sure : for in this world she led a life so right , That ill report could not distain , nor blemish her with spite . She traced had so cunningly , the path of virtues lore , Prefixing God omnipotent , her godly eyes before : And all her deeds precisely were , so ruled by reasons Squire , That all and some might her behold , from vice still to retire . The virtues all , the Muses nine , and Graces three agreed , To lodge within her noble breast , while she in Earth did feed . A head so straight and beautified , with wit and counsel sound , A mind so clean devoid of guile , is uneth to be found . But gone she is , and left the Stage of this most wretched life , Wherein she played a stately part , till cruel Fates with knife : Did cut the line of life in twaine , who shall not after go ? When time does come , we must all hence , Experience teaches so . Examples daily manifold , before our eyes we see , Which put us in remembrance , of our fragility . And bid us watch at every tide , for Death our lurking foe , Sith die we must , most certainly , but when , we do not know . Some which today are lusty Brutus's , of age and courage ripe , Tomorrow may be laid full low , by Death his grievous gripe . Respect and partiality of persons is there none , For King , or Kaiser , rich or poor , wise , foolish , all is one . God grant that we here left behind , this Ladies steps may tread , To live so well , to die no worse , Amen , as I have said . Then maugre Death , we shall be sure , when corpse in earth is closed , Among the joys celestial , our Soul shall be reposed . FINIS . Tho. Newton . Imprinted at London in Fleetstreete , by William How , for Ri - charde Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop under the Lottery house . H : 18322 And Epitaph upon the worthy and Honourable Lady , the Lady Knowles . DEath with his Dart hath us bereft , A Gem of worthy fame , A Pearl of price , and Ouche of praise , the Lady Knowles by name . A Mirror pure of womanhood , a Bootresse and and a stay , To all that honest were , she was I say both lock and kaye . Among the Troops of Ladies all , and Dams of noble raze , She counted was , ( and was indeed ) in Lady Fortune's grace . In favour with our noble Queen , above the common sort , With whom she was in credit great , and bore a comely port . There seemed between our Queen & Death , Contention for to be , Which of them both more entire love , to her could testify . The one in state did her advance , and place in dignity , That men thereby might know , to do , what princes able be . Death made her free from worldly cark , from sickness , pain and strife , And hath been as a gate , to bring her to eternal life . By Death therefore she hath receiv'de , a greater boon I know : For she hath made a change , whose bliss , no mortal wight can show . She here hath lost the company , of Lords and Ladies brave , Of husband , Children , friends and kin , and Courtly states full grave . In Lieu whereof , she gained hath the blessed company Of Saints , Archangels , Patriarchs , and Angels in degree . With all the Troops Seraphical , which in the heavenly Bower , Melodiously with one accord , Ebuccinate Gods power . Thus are we sure : for in this world she led a life so right , That ill report could not distain , nor blemish her with spite . She traced had so cunningly , the path of virtues lore , Prefixing God omnipotent , her godly eyes before : And all her deeds precisely were , so ruled by reasons Squire , That all and some might her behold , from vice still to retire . The virtues all , the Muses nine , and Graces three agreed , To lodge within her noble breast , while she in Earth did feed . A head so straight and beautified , with wit and counsel sound , A mind so clean devoid of guile , is uneth to be found . But gone she is , and left the Stage of this most wretched life , Wherein she played a stately part , till cruel Fates with knife : Did cut the line of life in twaine , who shall not after go ? When time does come , we must all hence , Experience teaches so . Examples daily manifold , before our eyes we see , Which put us in remembrance , of our fragility . And bid us watch at every tide , for Death our lurking foe , Sith die we must , most certainly , but when , we do not know . Some which today are lusty Brutus's , of age and courage ripe , Tomorrow may be laid full low , by Death his grievous gripe . Respect and partiality of persons is there none , For King , or Kaiser , rich or poor , wise , foolish , all is one . God grant that we here left behind , this Ladies steps may tread , To live so well , to die no worse , Amen , as I have said . Then maugre Death , we shall be sure , when corpse in earth is closed , Among the joys celestial , our Soul shall be reposed . FINIS . Tho. Newton . Imprinted at London in Fleetstreete , by William How , for Ri - charde Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop under the Lottery house . H : 18322 And Epitaph upon the worthy and Honourable Lady , the Lady Knowles . DEath with his Dart hath us bereft , A Gem of worthy fame , A Pearl of price , and Ouche of praise , the Lady Knowles by name . A Mirror pure of womanhood , a Bootresse and and a stay , To all that honest were , she was I say both lock and kaye . Among the Troops of Ladies all , and Dams of noble raze , She counted was , ( and was indeed ) in Lady Fortune's grace . In favour with our noble Queen , above the common sort , With whom she was in credit great , and bore a comely port . There seemed between our Queen & Death , Contention for to be , Which of them both more entire love , to her could testify . The one in state did her advance , and place in dignity , That men thereby might know , to do , what princes able be . Death made her free from worldly cark , from sickness , pain and strife , And hath been as a gate , to bring her to eternal life . By Death therefore she hath receiv'de , a greater boon I know : For she hath made a change , whose bliss , no mortal wight can show . She here hath lost the company , of Lords and Ladies brave , Of husband , Children , friends and kin , and Courtly states full grave . In Lieu whereof , she gained hath the blessed company Of Saints , Archangels , Patriarchs , and Angels in degree . With all the Troops Seraphical , which in the heavenly Bower , Melodiously with one accord , Ebuccinate Gods power . Thus are we sure : for in this world she led a life so right , That ill report could not distain , nor blemish her with spite . She traced had so cunningly , the path of virtues lore , Prefixing God omnipotent , her godly eyes before : And all her deeds precisely were , so ruled by reasons Squire , That all and some might her behold , from vice still to retire . The virtues all , the Muses nine , and Graces three agreed , To lodge within her noble breast , while she in Earth did feed . A head so straight and beautified , with wit and counsel sound , A mind so clean devoid of guile , is uneth to be found . But gone she is , and left the Stage of this most wretched life , Wherein she played a stately part , till cruel Fates with knife : Did cut the line of life in twaine , who shall not after go ? When time does come , we must all hence , Experience teaches so . Examples daily manifold , before our eyes we see , Which put us in remembrance , of our fragility . And bid us watch at every tide , for Death our lurking foe , Sith die we must , most certainly , but when , we do not know . Some which today are lusty Brutus's , of age and courage ripe , Tomorrow may be laid full low , by Death his grievous gripe . Respect and partiality of persons is there none , For King , or Kaiser , rich or poor , wise , foolish , all is one . God grant that we here left behind , this Ladies steps may tread , To live so well , to die no worse , Amen , as I have said . Then maugre Death , we shall be sure , when corpse in earth is closed , Among the joys celestial , our Soul shall be reposed . FINIS . Tho. Newton . Imprinted at London in Fleetstreete , by William How , for Ri - charde Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop under the Lottery house . 