H : 18319 THE MAP OF MORTALITIE . As by first Adam all do die So in me all are made alive . Death's swallowed up in victory , And I eternal life do give . Proud earth behold , as thou art we shall be . Against the grave , can no defence be made . Dust will to dust , as thou art once were we : World's vainglory does thus to nothing fade . Man does consume as water spilled on sand . Like lightnings flash , his life is seen and gone : Our part is played , your part is now in hand , Death strikes unwares , and striking spares none . Life is a debt to death , all men must die : But when , where , how , the Lord alone does know . As death leaves thee , even so undoubtedly Judgement shall find thee when last trump shall blow . Consider this oh man whil'st it is day , Thine own Christes death , for thee ( if thou be his ) Vile world's deceits , hells torments , heavens joy . Provide to day : in night no comfort is , In season calm , with Noah built and ark : With Joseph lay up store in plenties time : How to be sav'd , let be thy chiefest cark , Return to God , repent thee of thy crime : That come death late , early , or when he list , It be birth day of thine eternity . Of righteous men live thou the life in Chris Then sure the death of righteous shalt thou die . Die to the world , the pomps thereof forsake , That Christ may come and live with thee in love : So in the world , when thou shalt farewell take Thou mayest go dwell with Christ in heaven above . Youth well to live , age well to die should care : In life , for death : in death for life prepare . Sith Adams fallen did fill the world with sin , Whereby men days ( few ) days of sorrow been , His life , no life , rather calamity , And world's best pleasures , but mere vanity : Sith beauty , strength and wit , flowers fading be , Man made of dust , to dust must turn again : Sith all must die , by gods most just decree , And death no torment is , but rest from pain : Why should frail flesh fear death , that ends all woes , That salves all sores , and takes man from his foes ? His shape though ugly 'tis , he brings peace , Stints strife , ends cares , gives life , and wished-for ease . Men dying , sleep : sleeping , from travel rest , To live in joy for ever with the blessed . Rather embrace , then fear so good a friend : Yet wish not for him ; that in sin does end : But greater sin , to fear him sure it is , That troubles ends , and brings eternal bliss . To faithful soul , death's full of comforts sweet , That longeth with his Christ in Clouds to meet . In earth nought sweeter is to wisdoms sense , Then to prepare for peaceful passage hence . For , wise man all his life should meditate On death : that come he sudden , soon , or late , He is prepared to entertain him so , As Captives do , redeeming friends from woe . Live well thou mais but canst not live long . Even So live , that death may leave thee fit for heaven : And fear not death ; pale , ugly though he be . Thou art in thrall , he comes to set thee free . Imprinted at London by R. B. for William Lugger , and are to be should at his shop in Holborne , over against S. Andrewes Church . H : 18319 THE MAP OF MORTALITIE . As by first Adam all do die So in me all are made alive . Death's swallowed up in victory , And I eternal life do give . Proud earth behold , as thou art we shall be . Against the grave , can no defence be made . Dust will to dust , as thou art once were we : World's vainglory does thus to nothing fade . Man does consume as water spilled on sand . Like lightnings flash , his life is seen and gone : Our part is played , your part is now in hand , Death strikes unwares , and striking spares none . Life is a debt to death , all men must die : But when , where , how , the Lord alone does know . As death leaves thee , even so undoubtedly Judgement shall find thee when last trump shall blow . Consider this oh man whil'st it is day , Thine own Christes death , for thee ( if thou be his ) Vile world's deceits , hells torments , heavens joy . Provide to day : in night no comfort is , In season calm , with Noah built and ark : With Joseph lay up store in plenties time : How to be sav'd , let be thy chiefest cark , Return to God , repent thee of thy crime : That come death late , early , or when he list , It be birth day of thine eternity . Of righteous men live thou the life in Chris Then sure the death of righteous shalt thou die . Die to the world , the pomps thereof forsake , That Christ may come and live with thee in love : So in the world , when thou shalt farewell take Thou mayest go dwell with Christ in heaven above . Youth well to live , age well to die should care : In life , for death : in death for life prepare . Sith Adams fallen did fill the world with sin , Whereby men days ( few ) days of sorrow been , His life , no life , rather calamity , And world's best pleasures , but mere vanity : Sith beauty , strength and wit , flowers fading be , Man made of dust , to dust must turn again : Sith all must die , by gods most just decree , And death no torment is , but rest from pain : Why should frail flesh fear death , that ends all woes , That salves all sores , and takes man from his foes ? His shape though ugly 'tis , he brings peace , Stints strife , ends cares , gives life , and wished-for ease . Men dying , sleep : sleeping , from travel rest , To live in joy for ever with the blessed . Rather embrace , then fear so good a friend : Yet wish not for him ; that in sin does end : But greater sin , to fear him sure it is , That troubles ends , and brings eternal bliss . To faithful soul , death's full of comforts sweet , That longeth with his Christ in Clouds to meet . In earth nought sweeter is to wisdoms sense , Then to prepare for peaceful passage hence . For , wise man all his life should meditate On death : that come he sudden , soon , or late , He is prepared to entertain him so , As Captives do , redeeming friends from woe . Live well thou mais but canst not live long . Even So live , that death may leave thee fit for heaven : And fear not death ; pale , ugly though he be . Thou art in thrall , he comes to set thee free . Imprinted at London by R. B. for William Lugger , and are to be should at his shop in Holborne , over against S. Andrewes Church . 