H : 18314 A most excellent new Ballad , of and old man and his wife , which in their old age and misery sought to their own children for succour , by whom they were disdained & scornfully sent away succourless , and how the vengeance of God was justly showed upon them for the same . To the tune of Prissilla . IT was and old man , which with his poor wife , in great distress did fallen : They were so feeble with age God wot they could not work at all A gallant son they had which lived wealthily To whom they went with full intent , to ease their misery Alack and alas for woe , Alack and alas for woe . A hundred miles when they had gone with many a weary step at length they saw their sons fair house which made their hearts to leap : They sat them on the green their shoes and hose to trim And put clean bans about their neck gainst they should enter in . Alack etc Unto the door with trembling joints when this old couple came The woman with a shaking head the old man blind and lame Full warily they did knock fearing for to offend at last their son does frowningly come , unto them in the end . ( Alack , etc Good folks quod he what would you have here me thinks you are too bold Why get you not home to your country now you are old and Lame With that they both replied with sorrow care and grief Here are we come to thee our son for succour and relief . Alack , etc This is thy father gentle son and I thy loving mother That brought thee up most tenderly , and lov'd thee above all other I boar thee in this womb these breasts did nourish thee And as it chanced I often danced thee on my tender knee . Alack , etc And humbly now we do thee entreat , my deer and loving son That thou wilt do for us in our age as we for thee have done No , no , not so he said your suit is all in vain This best for you I tell you true to get you home again . Alack etc The world is not now as when I was born all things are grown more deer : My charge of Children is not small as plainly does appear The best that I can do will hardly them maintain : Therefore I say be packing away , and get you home again . alack , etc , The old man with his hat in hand full many a leg did make . The woman wept and wrong her hands and prayed him for Christ his sake : Not so to send them back , distressed and undone But let us lie in some bairn here by quoth she my loving son Alack etc , By no means would he thereto consent , but sent them soon away , Quoth he you know the peril of Law if long time here you stay : The stocks and whipping post will fallen unto your share Then take you heed and with all speed to your country do repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful old man , full sad in heart and mind With weeping tears his wife did lament their son was so unkind . Thou wicked child quoth they for this thy cruel deed : The Lord send thee as little pity , when thou dost stand in need . Alack etc His children hearing his father set his parents thus at nought In short time after to have his lands his death they subtly wrought What cause have we quoth they more kindness to express Then he unto his parents did , in their great wretchedness Alack , etc They murdered him in pitiful sort they wayde not his intreats : The more he prayed impassionately the greater were his threats Speak not to us quoth they , for thou the death shalt die : and with that word with Dagger & sword they mangled him monsterously Alack etc When they had god his silver and gold according to their mind They buried him in a stinking ditch where no man could him find : But now behold and see Gods vengeance on them all : To gain that gold their cozen came , and slew them great and small . alack etc He came among them with a great club , in dead time of the nigh Yea two of the sons he brained therewith , and taking of his flight The murderer taken was , and suffered for the same : Deservedly for their cruelty , this vengeance upon them came . Alack and alas therefore , Alack and alas therefore . Finis . At London printed for W . B.H : 18314 A most excellent new Ballad , of and old man and his wife , which in their old age and misery sought to their own children for succour , by whom they were disdained & scornfully sent away succourless , and how the vengeance of God was justly showed upon them for the same . To the tune of Prissilla . IT was and old man , which with his poor wife , in great distress did fallen : They were so feeble with age God wot they could not work at all A gallant son they had which lived wealthily To whom they went with full intent , to ease their misery Alack and alas for woe , Alack and alas for woe . A hundred miles when they had gone with many a weary step at length they saw their sons fair house which made their hearts to leap : They sat them on the green their shoes and hose to trim And put clean bans about their neck gainst they should enter in . Alack etc Unto the door with trembling joints when this old couple came The woman with a shaking head the old man blind and lame Full warily they did knock fearing for to offend at last their son does frowningly come , unto them in the end . ( Alack , etc Good folks quod he what would you have here me thinks you are too bold Why get you not home to your country now you are old and Lame With that they both replied with sorrow care and grief Here are we come to thee our son for succour and relief . Alack , etc This is thy father gentle son and I thy loving mother That brought thee up most tenderly , and lov'd thee above all other I boar thee in this womb these breasts did nourish thee And as it chanced I often danced thee on my tender knee . Alack , etc And humbly now we do thee entreat , my deer and loving son That thou wilt do for us in our age as we for thee have done No , no , not so he said your suit is all in vain This best for you I tell you true to get you home again . Alack etc The world is not now as when I was born all things are grown more deer : My charge of Children is not small as plainly does appear The best that I can do will hardly them maintain : Therefore I say be packing away , and get you home again . alack , etc , The old man with his hat in hand full many a leg did make . The woman wept and wrong her hands and prayed him for Christ his sake : Not so to send them back , distressed and undone But let us lie in some bairn here by quoth she my loving son Alack etc , By no means would he thereto consent , but sent them soon away , Quoth he you know the peril of Law if long time here you stay : The stocks and whipping post will fallen unto your share Then take you heed and with all speed to your country do repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful old man , full sad in heart and mind With weeping tears his wife did lament their son was so unkind . Thou wicked child quoth they for this thy cruel deed : The Lord send thee as little pity , when thou dost stand in need . Alack etc His children hearing his father set his parents thus at nought In short time after to have his lands his death they subtly wrought What cause have we quoth they more kindness to express Then he unto his parents did , in their great wretchedness Alack , etc They murdered him in pitiful sort they wayde not his intreats : The more he prayed impassionately the greater were his threats Speak not to us quoth they , for thou the death shalt die : and with that word with Dagger & sword they mangled him monsterously Alack etc When they had god his silver and gold according to their mind They buried him in a stinking ditch where no man could him find : But now behold and see Gods vengeance on them all : To gain that gold their cozen came , and slew them great and small . alack etc He came among them with a great club , in dead time of the nigh Yea two of the sons he brained therewith , and taking of his flight The murderer taken was , and suffered for the same : Deservedly for their cruelty , this vengeance upon them came . Alack and alas therefore , Alack and alas therefore . Finis . At London printed for W.B. 