H : 18316 The true description of two monstrous Children Born at Herne in Kent . The xxvii day of Auguste In the year our of Lord . M . CCCCC.LXV . They were booth women Children and were Christened , and live half a day . The one departed afore the other almost and hour . THe Monstrous and unnatural shapes of these Children & dyvers like brought forth in our days ( good reader ) are not only for us to gaze and wonder at , as things happening either by chance , or else by natural reason , as both the old , and our Phy - losophers also hold now a days : and without any farther heed to be had thereto , or else as our common custom is , by & by to judge god only offended with the Parents of the same , for some notoryous vice or offence reigning alone in them : But they are lessons & scholynges for us all ( as the word monster showeth ) who daily offend as grievously as they do , whereby god almighty of his great mercy and long suff - raunce , admonisheth us by them to amendment of our lives . no less wicked , yea many times , more then the parents of such mysformed bee . That this is true they shall well perceive , the rightly weigh and consi - der the answer of our Saviour Chryste unto his Disciples , asking him whither wear greater since - ners , the blind him self , either else his parents , that he was so born : To whom our savour Chryst answered , that neither he , neither they were faul - tie therein , but that he was therefore born blind , to th'end the glory of God might be declared on him , and by him . The same also appeareth in another an - swear made by our savour Chryste to them , which told him of the Galleyans , whom Pontius Pylate put to death for their rebellion against Augustus their Emperor , wherein he declareth ( as also by those xviii persons on whom the Tower by Sylo fell ) that there were as great offenders remaining alive , as any of them were . Wherefore he eftsoon and - monished them to amendment of life in general : or else by their examples threatened them with as grea - vous dystructyon , as fell upon any of them . These examples moved me ( good reader ) in consideration John ix . Luke xiii . of these days of our forgetfulness of duty , wherein we set so light the great bounty and goodness of God , calling us by these and such like examples to repen - taunce and correction of manners , and not still to flatter our selves while we judge others and wink at our own faults , to cause these twins thus to be portractured . And sure to him that considereth as he ought to do , the great decay of hearty love and charity ( among many other wants that the world is now fallen in , ) and had viewed and beheld the two babes , the one as it were embracing the other , and lenynge mouth to mouth , kissing ( as you would say , one another : ) it might seem that God by them either doth upbraid us , for our false dyssemblynge and Judas conditions & countenances , in friend - lie words , coverynge Caynes thoughts and cogy - tacions , or else by their semblaunte and example , ex - horte us to sincere amity and true friendship , void of all counterfeiting , or else both . Neither let any man think this and observacyon over curious , for as much as Christ him self hath by children taught us , that unless we become like Children , we shall not come in the kingdom of heaven . God make us all children in this wise , and perfect and well learned men to note and observe to what end he sends us such sights as these , that here by ( put in remembrance the rather of our duties both to him and our neigh - bours ) we may attain to life everlasting by Chryste our Lord . To whom with the holy Ghost for this and all other his works , be all majesty , pour glow - ry and dominion , now and ever . Amen . Mark x . Imprinted at London in Fletestreat by Thomas Col - well : for Owen Rogers dwelling at S. Sepulchers Church door . H : 18316 The true description of two monstrous Children Born at Herne in Kent . The xxvii day of Auguste In the year our of Lord . M . CCCCC.LXV . They were booth women Children and were Christened , and live half a day . The one departed afore the other almost and hour . THe Monstrous and unnatural shapes of these Children & dyvers like brought forth in our days ( good reader ) are not only for us to gaze and wonder at , as things happening either by chance , or else by natural reason , as both the old , and our Phy - losophers also hold now a days : and without any farther heed to be had thereto , or else as our common custom is , by & by to judge god only offended with the Parents of the same , for some notoryous vice or offence reigning alone in them : But they are lessons & scholynges for us all ( as the word monster showeth ) who daily offend as grievously as they do , whereby god almighty of his great mercy and long suff - raunce , admonisheth us by them to amendment of our lives . no less wicked , yea many times , more then the parents of such mysformed bee . That this is true they shall well perceive , the rightly weigh and consi - der the answer of our Saviour Chryste unto his Disciples , asking him whither wear greater since - ners , the blind him self , either else his parents , that he was so born : To whom our savour Chryst answered , that neither he , neither they were faul - tie therein , but that he was therefore born blind , to th'end the glory of God might be declared on him , and by him . The same also appeareth in another an - swear made by our savour Chryste to them , which told him of the Galleyans , whom Pontius Pylate put to death for their rebellion against Augustus their Emperor , wherein he declareth ( as also by those xviii persons on whom the Tower by Sylo fell ) that there were as great offenders remaining alive , as any of them were . Wherefore he eftsoon and - monished them to amendment of life in general : or else by their examples threatened them with as grea - vous dystructyon , as fell upon any of them . These examples moved me ( good reader ) in consideration John ix . Luke xiii . of these days of our forgetfulness of duty , wherein we set so light the great bounty and goodness of God , calling us by these and such like examples to repen - taunce and correction of manners , and not still to flatter our selves while we judge others and wink at our own faults , to cause these twins thus to be portractured . And sure to him that considereth as he ought to do , the great decay of hearty love and charity ( among many other wants that the world is now fallen in , ) and had viewed and beheld the two babes , the one as it were embracing the other , and lenynge mouth to mouth , kissing ( as you would say , one another : ) it might seem that God by them either doth upbraid us , for our false dyssemblynge and Judas conditions & countenances , in friend - lie words , coverynge Caynes thoughts and cogy - tacions , or else by their semblaunte and example , ex - horte us to sincere amity and true friendship , void of all counterfeiting , or else both . Neither let any man think this and observacyon over curious , for as much as Christ him self hath by children taught us , that unless we become like Children , we shall not come in the kingdom of heaven . God make us all children in this wise , and perfect and well learned men to note and observe to what end he sends us such sights as these , that here by ( put in remembrance the rather of our duties both to him and our neigh - bours ) we may attain to life everlasting by Chryste our Lord . To whom with the holy Ghost for this and all other his works , be all majesty , pour glow - ry and dominion , now and ever . Amen . Mark x . Imprinted at London in Fletestreat by Thomas Col - well : for Owen Rogers dwelling at S. Sepulchers Church door . 