H : 18313 Remember man both night and day . Thou must needs die , there is no nay . THy mortal body for - med of clay , Will soon revolve and pass away : But yet the time , how re , or day , Uncertain is , wherefore I say . Remember man . In youth or pleasure , if thou put thy trust , In honour , treasure , or yet in lus Soon all thy joy shall turn to dust , For remediless hens thou must . Remember man . All high estate and dignity , Pomp , glory , wealth and sovereignty : It can not prolong thy life pardie , But all shall turn to vanity . Remember man . The more thy years , the shorter is thy life , Against death there is no strife : And no kin , friend , child , nor wife . For thy poor will be pensive . Remember man . Then help thy soul , while thou art here , For though thy friend be never so never : When thou art dead , and laid on bear , They all with thy goods make good cheer . Remember man . Art thou so foolish for to believe , That they thy soul will releve : Or yet thy goods in almese give . Which to forgo , did thee soar grieve ? Remember man . Nay , nay , they will say openly , It were much sin , and great folly , On him to rue or take pity , That kept his goods so niggardly . Remember man . While thou hast goods , do alms deeds , Let virtue destroy all vicious weeds : And sow in thy soul , the wholesome sedes Of sorrow and repentance that to heaven ledes . Remember man . Send forth before to make thy way , Charitable deeds , which shall and may : Conduct thee surely without delay , Paradise to win , at the endless day . Remember man . Call also to thy memory , This world frail and transitory : Full of foul sin and misery , To heavenly bless clean contrary . Remember man . Of Christ Jesu the vervent love , Remember man all thing above , Whom pity did stir , and also move : To suffer death for thy behove . Remember man . The fearful day of strait judgement , Fyxe well in thy intendemen Where man and woman shall soar repent , Their sinful life and time mispent , Remember man . Forget not the infinite pains of hell . Being so fervent and so fell : That nothing can speak , nor yet tell , Where dampened souls shall evermore dwell . Remember man . Remember thy joy inestimable , So pleasant and so delectable , Of paradise so comfortable , Prepared for persons laudable , Remember man . Man , if thou keep this thing in mind . And to thy maker be not unkind : Eternal joy thou shalt then find , Ordained by god for all mankind . Remember man . The joys of heaven , the pains of hell , The passion of Christ , his death so fell : The world and death , consider thou well , And Domesday , love every deal . FINIS . Imprinted at London by Willyam Powell for Willyam Pickering dwelling at Saint Magnus corner . Anno. 1566. 21. August . H : 18313 Remember man both night and day . Thou must needs die , there is no nay . THy mortal body for - med of clay , Will soon revolve and pass away : But yet the time , how re , or day , Uncertain is , wherefore I say . Remember man . In youth or pleasure , if thou put thy trust , In honour , treasure , or yet in lus Soon all thy joy shall turn to dust , For remediless hens thou must . Remember man . All high estate and dignity , Pomp , glory , wealth and sovereignty : It can not prolong thy life pardie , But all shall turn to vanity . Remember man . The more thy years , the shorter is thy life , Against death there is no strife : And no kin , friend , child , nor wife . For thy poor will be pensive . Remember man . Then help thy soul , while thou art here , For though thy friend be never so never : When thou art dead , and laid on bear , They all with thy goods make good cheer . Remember man . Art thou so foolish for to believe , That they thy soul will releve : Or yet thy goods in almese give . Which to forgo , did thee soar grieve ? Remember man . Nay , nay , they will say openly , It were much sin , and great folly , On him to rue or take pity , That kept his goods so niggardly . Remember man . While thou hast goods , do alms deeds , Let virtue destroy all vicious weeds : And sow in thy soul , the wholesome sedes Of sorrow and repentance that to heaven ledes . Remember man . Send forth before to make thy way , Charitable deeds , which shall and may : Conduct thee surely without delay , Paradise to win , at the endless day . Remember man . Call also to thy memory , This world frail and transitory : Full of foul sin and misery , To heavenly bless clean contrary . Remember man . Of Christ Jesu the vervent love , Remember man all thing above , Whom pity did stir , and also move : To suffer death for thy behove . Remember man . The fearful day of strait judgement , Fyxe well in thy intendemen Where man and woman shall soar repent , Their sinful life and time mispent , Remember man . Forget not the infinite pains of hell . Being so fervent and so fell : That nothing can speak , nor yet tell , Where dampened souls shall evermore dwell . Remember man . Remember thy joy inestimable , So pleasant and so delectable , Of paradise so comfortable , Prepared for persons laudable , Remember man . Man , if thou keep this thing in mind . And to thy maker be not unkind : Eternal joy thou shalt then find , Ordained by god for all mankind . Remember man . The joys of heaven , the pains of hell , The passion of Christ , his death so fell : The world and death , consider thou well , And Domesday , love every deal . FINIS . Imprinted at London by Willyam Powell for Willyam Pickering dwelling at Saint Magnus corner . Anno. 1566. 21. August . 