H : 18320 A memorable Epitaph , made upon the lamentable complaint of the people of England , for the death of the right honourable Sir Frauncis Walsingham Knigh principal Secretary of Estate , Chancel - lor of her Majesties Court for the Duchy of Lankaster , and one of her highness most honourable privy Council . Who deceased at his house in London on the 7. day of Aprill last passed . Anno. Dom. 1590. WHo mourns not for the present loss that England doth sustain ? Who hath not cause this doleful day , with tears for to complain ? And wail the grievous want of him , who was a special stay , And perfect pillar to the state of England every way . I mean Sir Frauncis Walsingham , a Knight of great account , Whose wisdom in a Common wealth , most men did sure surmount . Of honourable place he was , beloved of Prince and Peers , And found most trusty to the state of England many years . His life too great a loss , if Prince with gold might it redress , His life so deer as none but may with blubbering tears confess , That England by his death hath lost a jewel of such store , As in the service of his place , the like God send us more . His want is great and grievous too , this no man can deny , When Prince and people wail his loss with many a weeping eye . The noble Lords of English soil : and chief of Englands Peers , Lament the death of this good Knight , and shed forth trickling tears . The states of Scotland and of Fraunce , of Holland and the rest Of the united Provinces , with sorrow have erpres Gone is the chief of worthy Knights in whom did wisdom flow , Gone is Sir Frauncis Walsingham the scourge of Englands foe . Gone is the man that doubtless was a prop to Englands state , Who pitied every strangers suit that came unto his gate . Gone is the Knight that careful was , all suits to end with speed , As did pertain to the relief of those that stood in need . Gone is the man that watchful was for safety of this land , To keep the Queen and Realm in peace , and treason to withstand , Gone is the Knight that did reward all men of each degree , That travel'd ought for Englands good , so good a Knight was he . Gone is the man that careful was our quiet to procure , For grave advice and counsel good , we found him firm and sure , The people to of English soil lament with inward grief , And say he was the chiefest stay and staff of their relief . They bid farewell unto this Knight who tendered each men case , Found free from bribery to his end : few such will come in place . A perfect zeal to honour good in him did alway rest , And true Religion to advance his love he still expressed . He hated all Idolators and popish Traitors too , He rooted out such wicked weeds as much as he might do . To sincere Preachers of Gods word , he was a special stay , And in his house he maintainde such , to preach Gods word each day . Deceit he banished from his house , fraud lodg'de not in his mind , The marks of true and Christian life , in him each one did find . His judgement stood with justice still , where as his doom was set , His will was still , each man he had , should pay his utmost debt . To prison he would none commit , but just cause he would see , And what he did was always done in perfect charity . Which makes each man to wring his hands , & sigh with inward moan , And says in anguish of their mind , Our chiefest stay is gone . Farewell Sir Frauncis Walsingham , that usury soar didst hate , That still didst good to rich and poor that came unto thy gate . Farewell the comfort of the poor , that to them alms did give , Farewell the stay to Soldiers good , while he on earth did live . Farewell the comfort of the Court , and Londons daily friend , Farewell to thee that for the poor thy Letters far would'st send . Farewell the suitor for the poor , that seldom let thee rest , Farewell the friend to fatherless and widow's soar oppressed . Farewell the care for Countries good , when Corn was prised so high , Farewell the Knight that succourd'st those that then were like to die . Farewell and thousand times farewell thou good and worthy Knight , That in the cause of poor and rich , full many a wrong didst right . Farewell thou good and friendly Knight to Scholars poor and bore , Of Cambridge and of Oxford to , of whom thou hadst great care , Farewell all suitors say , he showed himself most kind , He courteously would take their plaints and tell them soon his mind . His Lady wails , his Daughter weeps , his kinsfolk sighing sits , His Servants wail and wring their hands as folk beside their wits . The rich do miss him every day , the poor shall want him still , And many wish him now alive if that it were Gods will . But tears sufficeth not at all , let us assured stand , His soul is placed in heaven with Christ , which sits on Gods right hand , He lived well , and well he died , he made a godly end , For to Almighty God his soul with zeal he did commend . God grant her highness still may have such careful members store , That she may live and reign in peace , in England evermore . And grant that his well governed life , a Loadstone still may be , To such as shall from time to time serve in such high degree . Grant Lord that they may zealous be the Gospel to defend , And shun for to be covetous , even till their lives do end . Then shall her highness live in joy , and England shall be free , From Turke , from Pope , from sword , from fire , and force of enemy . FINIS . Tho. Nelson . Printed for William Wright . H : 18320 A memorable Epitaph , made upon the lamentable complaint of the people of England , for the death of the right honourable Sir Frauncis Walsingham Knigh principal Secretary of Estate , Chancel - lor of her Majesties Court for the Duchy of Lankaster , and one of her highness most honourable privy Council . Who deceased at his house in London on the 7. day of Aprill last passed . Anno. Dom. 1590. WHo mourns not for the present loss that England doth sustain ? Who hath not cause this doleful day , with tears for to complain ? And wail the grievous want of him , who was a special stay , And perfect pillar to the state of England every way . I mean Sir Frauncis Walsingham , a Knight of great account , Whose wisdom in a Common wealth , most men did sure surmount . Of honourable place he was , beloved of Prince and Peers , And found most trusty to the state of England many years . His life too great a loss , if Prince with gold might it redress , His life so deer as none but may with blubbering tears confess , That England by his death hath lost a jewel of such store , As in the service of his place , the like God send us more . His want is great and grievous too , this no man can deny , When Prince and people wail his loss with many a weeping eye . The noble Lords of English soil : and chief of Englands Peers , Lament the death of this good Knight , and shed forth trickling tears . The states of Scotland and of Fraunce , of Holland and the rest Of the united Provinces , with sorrow have erpres Gone is the chief of worthy Knights in whom did wisdom flow , Gone is Sir Frauncis Walsingham the scourge of Englands foe . Gone is the man that doubtless was a prop to Englands state , Who pitied every strangers suit that came unto his gate . Gone is the Knight that careful was , all suits to end with speed , As did pertain to the relief of those that stood in need . Gone is the man that watchful was for safety of this land , To keep the Queen and Realm in peace , and treason to withstand , Gone is the Knight that did reward all men of each degree , That travel'd ought for Englands good , so good a Knight was he . Gone is the man that careful was our quiet to procure , For grave advice and counsel good , we found him firm and sure , The people to of English soil lament with inward grief , And say he was the chiefest stay and staff of their relief . They bid farewell unto this Knight who tendered each men case , Found free from bribery to his end : few such will come in place . A perfect zeal to honour good in him did alway rest , And true Religion to advance his love he still expressed . He hated all Idolators and popish Traitors too , He rooted out such wicked weeds as much as he might do . To sincere Preachers of Gods word , he was a special stay , And in his house he maintainde such , to preach Gods word each day . Deceit he banished from his house , fraud lodg'de not in his mind , The marks of true and Christian life , in him each one did find . His judgement stood with justice still , where as his doom was set , His will was still , each man he had , should pay his utmost debt . To prison he would none commit , but just cause he would see , And what he did was always done in perfect charity . Which makes each man to wring his hands , & sigh with inward moan , And says in anguish of their mind , Our chiefest stay is gone . Farewell Sir Frauncis Walsingham , that usury soar didst hate , That still didst good to rich and poor that came unto thy gate . Farewell the comfort of the poor , that to them alms did give , Farewell the stay to Soldiers good , while he on earth did live . Farewell the comfort of the Court , and Londons daily friend , Farewell to thee that for the poor thy Letters far would'st send . Farewell the suitor for the poor , that seldom let thee rest , Farewell the friend to fatherless and widow's soar oppressed . Farewell the care for Countries good , when Corn was prised so high , Farewell the Knight that succourd'st those that then were like to die . Farewell and thousand times farewell thou good and worthy Knight , That in the cause of poor and rich , full many a wrong didst right . Farewell thou good and friendly Knight to Scholars poor and bore , Of Cambridge and of Oxford to , of whom thou hadst great care , Farewell all suitors say , he showed himself most kind , He courteously would take their plaints and tell them soon his mind . His Lady wails , his Daughter weeps , his kinsfolk sighing sits , His Servants wail and wring their hands as folk beside their wits . The rich do miss him every day , the poor shall want him still , And many wish him now alive if that it were Gods will . But tears sufficeth not at all , let us assured stand , His soul is placed in heaven with Christ , which sits on Gods right hand , He lived well , and well he died , he made a godly end , For to Almighty God his soul with zeal he did commend . God grant her highness still may have such careful members store , That she may live and reign in peace , in England evermore . And grant that his well governed life , a Loadstone still may be , To such as shall from time to time serve in such high degree . Grant Lord that they may zealous be the Gospel to defend , And shun for to be covetous , even till their lives do end . Then shall her highness live in joy , and England shall be free , From Turke , from Pope , from sword , from fire , and force of enemy . FINIS . Tho. Nelson . Printed for William Wright . 