H : 18327 And Epytaphe , or a lamentable Discourse : wherein is bewailed the death of the Right worshipful Knight , Sir William GARRA One of the Queen's Majesties Commissioners , and chief Alderman of the honourable City of London . Who deceased the .27 . of SEPTEMBER . 1571. WHo can refrain from sorwing plaints , and brinish blubbering tears ? What heart will now refuse to groan ? and turn from Joy his ears . Ne high , ne low , ne Rich , ne poor , in London that remain , But have just cause for GARRATS loss , to languish and complain : Help me therefore you powers divine : that in the heavens do dwell , The loss of this most worthy wight , in mourning Verse to tell . Come now CALLIOPE I pray , and CLIO Golden Dame : with Sisters thine from HELYCON , aid me fresh plaints to frame . Stay not on Mount PERNASO now , cast on your mourning weed , convert your Hymns and Songs of Joy , to wailing woes with speed . Send forth with me your sighing sobs , the sacred Skies to pierce : that unto Gods and mortal men , our plaints we may disperse . And fail me not O PALLAS now , amid my grief and woe : But grant with skyl to guide my Quill , these heavy News to shoe . Sith I with tears do crave your aid , let me your favour find : The loss of GARRAT worthy Wight , help now to print in mind . What ? fly you thus from me ? alas : why go you back again ? will none of you to further me , vouchsafe to take the pain ? Alas , ( unskilful wretch : ) Disdain does thee betide : For MEDUCE and PIERIDES , with thee in place abide : These Dams , as hard as Steel or Flint , are fixed in thy sighs and thou hast nought but black and white , thy meaning to endight . Leave off therefore , sith CLIOS Spring , of Rhetoric is fled : thy will is good , but powers thine , with Ignorance are fed . I wept to see my Fortune such , my woes did then abound : But Hoape at last to comfort me , a present mean forth found : Fear not ( quoth she ) despair thou not , set drooping dread aside , take Pen and wriie : to comfort thee , ( I Hoape ) a mean provide . Lift up thine eyes , behold and see , Dame Truth is in thy sighs with that I rendered humble thanks , and took my Pen to wright . And now , away you doubtful lets , that clogde my heart with fears : By force to give you overthrow , Dame Truth in place appears . Should GARRATS loss unminded be ? such Friend to Common weal , Though he be gone , should we not way , his true and godly zeal ? Should we forget his courtesy , so plainly known and seen ? Then most unkind we should remain , sith he our friend hath been . the Consuls wise , you Senators , that Londons wealth provide , Lament and wail , for unto you , no small loss is betide . the all have lost a faithful Friend , for Counsel sage and wise : In things of weight , you failed not , to follow his advice . But now that sacred JOVE , by wisdom his decreed , That LACHESIS & CLOTHO both , their toil should leave in deed : Coms PARCHAS she , with Fickle sharp , & shreads the thread in twaine That three score years & vii to weave : they had employed their pain . She cutteth down this Olive green , whose Branches fair did shoe , His days are ron to CHAMPIAN now , and BEECHER he will go . Of HAYWARD wise , Praetorian he , now GARRAT leave does take Good OFFLEY old , and gentle WHITE : by Death he must forsake . Eke DRAPER wise , and ALLEN he , whose wisdom does excel . with all the Troop of Aldermen , thus GARRAT bids , Farewell . Therefore in Senate when you fit and want him in your train : For wisdom his , in Memory , let Image his remain . In rule , he was your equal sure : for Counsel SOLON he , Then meet with tears his Absence should , of you lamented be . No Rule , but he hath born , that does to LONDON long , A man upright in Justice sure , that knew the right from wrong . Most apt was GARRAT to do good , to all and every wight , Both rich and poor , may wail the loss , of such a gentle Knight . In Justice , single was he sure , in Judgement alway sound : To cease contending , prove and pressed , this worthy man was found . To needy poor a perfect friend , to tender all their grief , And such a one , as spared not , to them to give relief . Unto the Prisoners poor , that did in captive plighted remain : From bands to free all that he could , he did employ his pain . But who hath lost the greatest loss ? I know not one , but all : But to his Spouse and Lady deer , the greatest loss does fallen . She wants her loving Make , her Friend and Turtle true : whose death with sighs & sorrowing sobs , she ceases not to rew . His Children deer their Father want , they lack their Staff & stay . His Servants they , their Master miss , alas and well away . But that they lost , the Lord hath found , the mighty God on high : For as his life was virtuous , so godly he did die . Amid his bitter pangs of death , that were both sharp and strong : To see his Christ and heavenly Joys , he vehemently did long . And now his wish he hath obtained , for Death hath done his will : His Corpse devoid of breath does rest , yet shall his Fame live still . His Soul by faith the Heavens hath wone , his Body shrowds in Clay This final farewell GARRAT take : I have no more to say . FINIS . I . PHILIP . Imprinted at London in the upper end of Fleetelane : by Richarde Jonnes , and are to be should at his Shop , joining to the Southwest Door of saint Paules Church . 1571. October 4. H : 18327 And Epytaphe , or a lamentable Discourse : wherein is bewailed the death of the Right worshipful Knight , Sir William GARRA One of the Queen's Majesties Commissioners , and chief Alderman of the honourable City of London . Who deceased the .27 . of SEPTEMBER . 1571. WHo can refrain from sorwing plaints , and brinish blubbering tears ? What heart will now refuse to groan ? and turn from Joy his ears . Ne high , ne low , ne Rich , ne poor , in London that remain , But have just cause for GARRATS loss , to languish and complain : Help me therefore you powers divine : that in the heavens do dwell , The loss of this most worthy wight , in mourning Verse to tell . Come now CALLIOPE I pray , and CLIO Golden Dame : with Sisters thine from HELYCON , aid me fresh plaints to frame . Stay not on Mount PERNASO now , cast on your mourning weed , convert your Hymns and Songs of Joy , to wailing woes with speed . Send forth with me your sighing sobs , the sacred Skies to pierce : that unto Gods and mortal men , our plaints we may disperse . And fail me not O PALLAS now , amid my grief and woe : But grant with skyl to guide my Quill , these heavy News to shoe . Sith I with tears do crave your aid , let me your favour find : The loss of GARRAT worthy Wight , help now to print in mind . What ? fly you thus from me ? alas : why go you back again ? will none of you to further me , vouchsafe to take the pain ? Alas , ( unskilful wretch : ) Disdain does thee betide : For MEDUCE and PIERIDES , with thee in place abide : These Dams , as hard as Steel or Flint , are fixed in thy sighs and thou hast nought but black and white , thy meaning to endight . Leave off therefore , sith CLIOS Spring , of Rhetoric is fled : thy will is good , but powers thine , with Ignorance are fed . I wept to see my Fortune such , my woes did then abound : But Hoape at last to comfort me , a present mean forth found : Fear not ( quoth she ) despair thou not , set drooping dread aside , take Pen and wriie : to comfort thee , ( I Hoape ) a mean provide . Lift up thine eyes , behold and see , Dame Truth is in thy sighs with that I rendered humble thanks , and took my Pen to wright . And now , away you doubtful lets , that clogde my heart with fears : By force to give you overthrow , Dame Truth in place appears . Should GARRATS loss unminded be ? such Friend to Common weal , Though he be gone , should we not way , his true and godly zeal ? Should we forget his courtesy , so plainly known and seen ? Then most unkind we should remain , sith he our friend hath been . the Consuls wise , you Senators , that Londons wealth provide , Lament and wail , for unto you , no small loss is betide . the all have lost a faithful Friend , for Counsel sage and wise : In things of weight , you failed not , to follow his advice . But now that sacred JOVE , by wisdom his decreed , That LACHESIS & CLOTHO both , their toil should leave in deed : Coms PARCHAS she , with Fickle sharp , & shreads the thread in twaine That three score years & vii to weave : they had employed their pain . She cutteth down this Olive green , whose Branches fair did shoe , His days are ron to CHAMPIAN now , and BEECHER he will go . Of HAYWARD wise , Praetorian he , now GARRAT leave does take Good OFFLEY old , and gentle WHITE : by Death he must forsake . Eke DRAPER wise , and ALLEN he , whose wisdom does excel . with all the Troop of Aldermen , thus GARRAT bids , Farewell . Therefore in Senate when you fit and want him in your train : For wisdom his , in Memory , let Image his remain . In rule , he was your equal sure : for Counsel SOLON he , Then meet with tears his Absence should , of you lamented be . No Rule , but he hath born , that does to LONDON long , A man upright in Justice sure , that knew the right from wrong . Most apt was GARRAT to do good , to all and every wight , Both rich and poor , may wail the loss , of such a gentle Knight . In Justice , single was he sure , in Judgement alway sound : To cease contending , prove and pressed , this worthy man was found . To needy poor a perfect friend , to tender all their grief , And such a one , as spared not , to them to give relief . Unto the Prisoners poor , that did in captive plighted remain : From bands to free all that he could , he did employ his pain . But who hath lost the greatest loss ? I know not one , but all : But to his Spouse and Lady deer , the greatest loss does fallen . She wants her loving Make , her Friend and Turtle true : whose death with sighs & sorrowing sobs , she ceases not to rew . His Children deer their Father want , they lack their Staff & stay . His Servants they , their Master miss , alas and well away . But that they lost , the Lord hath found , the mighty God on high : For as his life was virtuous , so godly he did die . Amid his bitter pangs of death , that were both sharp and strong : To see his Christ and heavenly Joys , he vehemently did long . And now his wish he hath obtained , for Death hath done his will : His Corpse devoid of breath does rest , yet shall his Fame live still . His Soul by faith the Heavens hath wone , his Body shrowds in Clay This final farewell GARRAT take : I have no more to say . FINIS . I . PHILIP . Imprinted at London in the upper end of Fleetelane : by Richarde Jonnes , and are to be should at his Shop , joining to the Southwest Door of saint Paules Church . 1571. October 4. 