H : 18324 A warning to London by the fallen of Antwerp To the tune of Row well you Mariners . THe sturdy Oak at length / When force does fail though never so tall : Resigneth up his strength , By boisterous blasts unto the fall . The stately Stag in time doth yield : Him self a prey to Dogs in field . The Peacock proud , the swelling Swan : At last doth serve the use of man . Pride , pomp , plumes gay : Must have a fallen who ere say nay , High minds , state , power : Shall come to end within and hour . Let Antwerp warning be , thou stately London to beware : Lest resting in thy glee , thou wrapst thy self in wretched care Be vigilant , sleep not in since : Lest that thy foe do enter in . Keep sure thy trench , prepare thy sho Watch well , so shall no foil be god . Stand fast , play thy part : Quail not but show and english heart , Doubt , dread , still fear : For Antwerps plague approaches near . Leave tearing of thy God , let vain excess be laid aside : Else shalt thou feel the rod , prepared for to scouge thy pride . Forsake thy Devilish drunken trade : Which almost hath the entrance made . Erect your walls give out your charge Keep well your ray , run not at large . Faint not , fiercely figh Shrink not but keep your countries right . Stand stout , on Jesus call : And he no doubt will help you all . Trust not a civil foe , Which under colour wishes good : For ere thy self dost know , by craft he seeks to have thy blood . The Snake in grass does groveling lie : Till for revenge due time he spy . The leering Dog does bite more soar : Then he that warning gives before . Fine flattery , fair face : Much discord breeds in every place . Fire , shot , must be to ho For those which have their God forgotten . Rejoice not if thou see , thy neighbours house set on a flame : For like thy luck may be , unless thou well prevent the same . The scourge which late on Antwerp fell : Thy wrack and ruin doth foretell . Make not a gibing jest thera Lest stately Troy be beaten flat . prey God faithfully : To save us from all treachery . Doubt not if we do so : We shall escape the foreign foe . prey we with one accord , that God our Queen may ay defend : From those which seek by sword / to bring her graces reign to end . Cut of ( Oh Lord ) their devilish days : And grant her life thy name to praise . Garde her with grace her Champion be That she may gain the victory . Hope well , pray still : God is our guide we fear none ill . Fear not , watch pray : God shield this City from decay . AMEN . quod Rafe Norris . IMPRINTED AT LONDON at the long Shop adjoining unto S. Mildreds Church in the Pultrie , by John Allde . H : 18324 A warning to London by the fallen of Antwerp To the tune of Row well you Mariners . THe sturdy Oak at length / When force does fail though never so tall : Resigneth up his strength , By boisterous blasts unto the fall . The stately Stag in time doth yield : Him self a prey to Dogs in field . The Peacock proud , the swelling Swan : At last doth serve the use of man . Pride , pomp , plumes gay : Must have a fallen who ere say nay , High minds , state , power : Shall come to end within and hour . Let Antwerp warning be , thou stately London to beware : Lest resting in thy glee , thou wrapst thy self in wretched care Be vigilant , sleep not in since : Lest that thy foe do enter in . Keep sure thy trench , prepare thy sho Watch well , so shall no foil be god . Stand fast , play thy part : Quail not but show and english heart , Doubt , dread , still fear : For Antwerps plague approaches near . Leave tearing of thy God , let vain excess be laid aside : Else shalt thou feel the rod , prepared for to scouge thy pride . Forsake thy Devilish drunken trade : Which almost hath the entrance made . Erect your walls give out your charge Keep well your ray , run not at large . Faint not , fiercely figh Shrink not but keep your countries right . Stand stout , on Jesus call : And he no doubt will help you all . Trust not a civil foe , Which under colour wishes good : For ere thy self dost know , by craft he seeks to have thy blood . The Snake in grass does groveling lie : Till for revenge due time he spy . The leering Dog does bite more soar : Then he that warning gives before . Fine flattery , fair face : Much discord breeds in every place . Fire , shot , must be to ho For those which have their God forgotten . Rejoice not if thou see , thy neighbours house set on a flame : For like thy luck may be , unless thou well prevent the same . The scourge which late on Antwerp fell : Thy wrack and ruin doth foretell . Make not a gibing jest thera Lest stately Troy be beaten flat . prey God faithfully : To save us from all treachery . Doubt not if we do so : We shall escape the foreign foe . prey we with one accord , that God our Queen may ay defend : From those which seek by sword / to bring her graces reign to end . Cut of ( Oh Lord ) their devilish days : And grant her life thy name to praise . Garde her with grace her Champion be That she may gain the victory . Hope well , pray still : God is our guide we fear none ill . Fear not , watch pray : God shield this City from decay . AMEN . quod Rafe Norris . IMPRINTED AT LONDON at the long Shop adjoining unto S. Mildreds Church in the Pultrie , by John Allde . 