H : 18323 The welspoken Nobody . God that is all good and almighty Hath showed his power upon me Nobody , For where my mouth with lock was sparred He hath it burst and my speech restored , Wherefore I will sing praise unto his name Because I may speak without any blame , And though the pope with all his train Do me rebuke and against me sayen That as to before I should now hold my peace Yet Gods honour to set forth I can not cease . Many speak of Roben hood that never shot in his bow So many have laid faults to me , which I did never know , But now behold here I am Whom all the world doth diffame Long have they also scorned me And locked my mouth for speaking free As many a Godly man they have so served Which unto them Gods truth hath showed Of such they have burned and hanged some That unto their idolatry would not come The lady truth they have locked in cage Saying that of her Nobody had knowledge For as much now as they name Nobody I think verily they speak of me Wherefore to answer I now begin The lock of my mouth is opened with gin Wrought by no man , but by Gods grace Unto whom be praise in every place My Journeys I make both far and never To seek where people Gods justice fear In that place would I make my habytation Trusting there to have a continual mansion In print to before I did never appear Yet many could me not well bear But no marvel for the proverb sayeth All men can not abide to hear the truth A companion must he be with these good fellows , As long as they will have him in their companies , But sometime they forget him , until he be Moulded or wormeaten , and than for heresy They do him burn secretly as in the night The Jewes took Christ , so these by their might Follow the other , being soar afraid , Lest these their pranks should be bewrayed . In the Dedication day , than out of the steeple Do they him hang to espy the people , And with a little bell them for to warn , Because the priests should catch no harm In studiyng Gods word the flock to fede . No this is enough , they have no other seed To sow , therefore they shall reap Wind , as they sowed wind a great heap . Woe be to me say Paule , if I should not preach No say the Pope my ceremonies teach . But what do they teach show the meaning ? Well , Gods word gyveth me smelling That Paule and your opinion contrary be , Should men leave Paule , and follow thee . On relyke Sondayes , than bring you forth trompery Your relics must be washen , that water say ye , Is good for sin and sickness of beast , Thus of Christes blood make you a gest So is thy soul spiritually fed , With Christes most blessed body and blood , Which for thy sins was offered on the road , With which oblation Gods wrath is satisfied Never hereafter to be Reoffered For with one oblation by him self made , He hath made us perfect , therefore be glad , For unto perfection nothing can be added Where be now such , as masses have said To be propitiatory God them forgive , And convert their hearts , whiles they do live That they look for none other propiciation Than that which Christ made him self alone , In remembrance , whereof to confirm our faith He bade us receive as the scripture sayeth . This holy communion . No come and see Stare on it ( sayeth the Pope ) and ones a year take Nay not so neighbour take not , but gape . Thy finger would rot if thou touch but the chalice , Oh holy Paule , thou bade men be wise , And ware of such , as should admonish From handling and touching , which things do perish , Even with thabuse thou sayest . Well Now sing that all men begin to smell All you that be priests I Nobody pray , To repent and be learned , resist not I sayeH : 18323 The welspoken Nobody . God that is all good and almighty Hath showed his power upon me Nobody , For where my mouth with lock was sparred He hath it burst and my speech restored , Wherefore I will sing praise unto his name Because I may speak without any blame , And though the pope with all his train Do me rebuke and against me sayen That as to before I should now hold my peace Yet Gods honour to set forth I can not cease . Many speak of Roben hood that never shot in his bow So many have laid faults to me , which I did never know , But now behold here I am Whom all the world doth diffame Long have they also scorned me And locked my mouth for speaking free As many a Godly man they have so served Which unto them Gods truth hath showed Of such they have burned and hanged some That unto their idolatry would not come The lady truth they have locked in cage Saying that of her Nobody had knowledge For as much now as they name Nobody I think verily they speak of me Wherefore to answer I now begin The lock of my mouth is opened with gin Wrought by no man , but by Gods grace Unto whom be praise in every place My Journeys I make both far and never To seek where people Gods justice fear In that place would I make my habytation Trusting there to have a continual mansion In print to before I did never appear Yet many could me not well bear But no marvel for the proverb sayeth All men can not abide to hear the truth A companion must he be with these good fellows , As long as they will have him in their companies , But sometime they forget him , until he be Moulded or wormeaten , and than for heresy They do him burn secretly as in the night The Jewes took Christ , so these by their might Follow the other , being soar afraid , Lest these their pranks should be bewrayed . In the Dedication day , than out of the steeple Do they him hang to espy the people , And with a little bell them for to warn , Because the priests should catch no harm In studiyng Gods word the flock to fede . No this is enough , they have no other seed To sow , therefore they shall reap Wind , as they sowed wind a great heap . Woe be to me say Paule , if I should not preach No say the Pope my ceremonies teach . But what do they teach show the meaning ? Well , Gods word gyveth me smelling That Paule and your opinion contrary be , Should men leave Paule , and follow thee . On relyke Sondayes , than bring you forth trompery Your relics must be washen , that water say ye , Is good for sin and sickness of beast , Thus of Christes blood make you a gest So is thy soul spiritually fed , With Christes most blessed body and blood , Which for thy sins was offered on the road , With which oblation Gods wrath is satisfied Never hereafter to be Reoffered For with one oblation by him self made , He hath made us perfect , therefore be glad , For unto perfection nothing can be added Where be now such , as masses have said To be propitiatory God them forgive , And convert their hearts , whiles they do live That they look for none other propiciation Than that which Christ made him self alone , In remembrance , whereof to confirm our faith He bade us receive as the scripture sayeth . This holy communion . No come and see Stare on it ( sayeth the Pope ) and ones a year take Nay not so neighbour take not , but gape . Thy finger would rot if thou touch but the chalice , Oh holy Paule , thou bade men be wise , And ware of such , as should admonish From handling and touching , which things do perish , Even with thabuse thou sayest . Well Now sing that all men begin to smell All you that be priests I Nobody pray , To repent and be learned , resist not I say 