H : 180182 The Second Part to the same Tune . Or , The Letanie continued . Which may be sung or said , Morning or Evening , before or after Supper . FRom a painted Lady with black patches , From Parliament-men , and their lame dispatches , From midnight-hunting in another men Berry , From going over to Callis in a Wherry , And from the Black Rod where seven Nobles be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a proud Woodcock , and a peevish wife , From a pointless Needle , and a broken knife , From lying along in a Ladies Lap , Like a great Fool that longs for Pap , And from the fruit of the Three-cornered Tree , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From all Capon-eating holy Cobblers , From illuminated mystical Con-joblers , From Presbyters , and Independent Traitors , And all such Creatures called Agitators , From these , the Devil , and worse , if worse may be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a conspiracy of wicked Knaves , A knot of Villains , and a crew of Slaves , From laying Plots for to abuse a Friend , From working humours to a wicked end : And from the place where Wolves and Foxes be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Raviliac's , Catalines , and Joyces , From factious brother's sniveling voices , From and Ireton or a Crumwell , Such blessed Saints that love a Bum-well , And from all Subject's that would Sovereigns be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From rusty Bacon and ill roasted Eeles , From a madding wit that runs on wheels , From a vapring humour and a beetle head , A smoky chimney and a lousy bed , A blow upon the elbow and the knee , From each of these goodness deliver me . From setting Virtue at too low a price , From losing too much coin at Cards and Dice , From Suretyship , and and empty purse , From any thing that may be termed worse : From all such ill wherein no good can be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Cockoldry , and a Coward City , From Harpies claws , and from a Committee ; From Satans Imps , all Sequestrators , Flesh-eating Canibals , State Regraters : From all such Thieves and Rogues my prayer shall be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Morbus Gallicus , and Spanish Figs , From a Welch Hubbub , and from Scottish Jigs , From wandering Preachers before they be sent , And from a seven-yeers Parliament , That never was , nor is , nor good will be , From each of these Virtue deliver me . From senior sympleton the good Lord Grey , From that State-Fox politic the Lord Say , Whose Nose like a Pickax beats down our Churches , From Nath : his Sons fierce sieges , and false lurches , From making use of such as these men be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Philip the fool , that swore he'd be Independent , From Piercy the puppy , or Protector transcenden From the Lord Wharton that valiant Moppet , Tom Thum in and Oven , and he in a Sawpit . From such as Apes , and Owls , and Asses be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Billy Brereton that Martial tool , That looks as sitting upon a close stool , From Colonel Martyn that peticoat-diver , And a chip o'th' same block , old Herefords Weaver : From Sir John Pots I'le prey , yes verily , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From the highly promoted Mr. Pury , Of a poor Weaver to be a State-Fury , From Marshal , and Burges , those Geneva Bulls , From Cawdry , and Calamy such spiritual Gulls , From all such holy Weathercocks as they be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . H : 180182 The Second Part to the same Tune . Or , The Letanie continued . Which may be sung or said , Morning or Evening , before or after Supper . FRom a painted Lady with black patches , From Parliament-men , and their lame dispatches , From midnight-hunting in another men Berry , From going over to Callis in a Wherry , And from the Black Rod where seven Nobles be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a proud Woodcock , and a peevish wife , From a pointless Needle , and a broken knife , From lying along in a Ladies Lap , Like a great Fool that longs for Pap , And from the fruit of the Three-cornered Tree , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From all Capon-eating holy Cobblers , From illuminated mystical Con-joblers , From Presbyters , and Independent Traitors , And all such Creatures called Agitators , From these , the Devil , and worse , if worse may be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a conspiracy of wicked Knaves , A knot of Villains , and a crew of Slaves , From laying Plots for to abuse a Friend , From working humours to a wicked end : And from the place where Wolves and Foxes be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Raviliac's , Catalines , and Joyces , From factious brother's sniveling voices , From and Ireton or a Crumwell , Such blessed Saints that love a Bum-well , And from all Subject's that would Sovereigns be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From rusty Bacon and ill roasted Eeles , From a madding wit that runs on wheels , From a vapring humour and a beetle head , A smoky chimney and a lousy bed , A blow upon the elbow and the knee , From each of these goodness deliver me . From setting Virtue at too low a price , From losing too much coin at Cards and Dice , From Suretyship , and and empty purse , From any thing that may be termed worse : From all such ill wherein no good can be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Cockoldry , and a Coward City , From Harpies claws , and from a Committee ; From Satans Imps , all Sequestrators , Flesh-eating Canibals , State Regraters : From all such Thieves and Rogues my prayer shall be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Morbus Gallicus , and Spanish Figs , From a Welch Hubbub , and from Scottish Jigs , From wandering Preachers before they be sent , And from a seven-yeers Parliament , That never was , nor is , nor good will be , From each of these Virtue deliver me . From senior sympleton the good Lord Grey , From that State-Fox politic the Lord Say , Whose Nose like a Pickax beats down our Churches , From Nath : his Sons fierce sieges , and false lurches , From making use of such as these men be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Philip the fool , that swore he'd be Independent , From Piercy the puppy , or Protector transcenden From the Lord Wharton that valiant Moppet , Tom Thum in and Oven , and he in a Sawpit . From such as Apes , and Owls , and Asses be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Billy Brereton that Martial tool , That looks as sitting upon a close stool , From Colonel Martyn that peticoat-diver , And a chip o'th' same block , old Herefords Weaver : From Sir John Pots I'le prey , yes verily , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From the highly promoted Mr. Pury , Of a poor Weaver to be a State-Fury , From Marshal , and Burges , those Geneva Bulls , From Cawdry , and Calamy such spiritual Gulls , From all such holy Weathercocks as they be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . H : 180182 The Second Part to the same Tune . Or , The Letanie continued . Which may be sung or said , Morning or Evening , before or after Supper . FRom a painted Lady with black patches , From Parliament-men , and their lame dispatches , From midnight-hunting in another men Berry , From going over to Callis in a Wherry , And from the Black Rod where seven Nobles be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a proud Woodcock , and a peevish wife , From a pointless Needle , and a broken knife , From lying along in a Ladies Lap , Like a great Fool that longs for Pap , And from the fruit of the Three-cornered Tree , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From all Capon-eating holy Cobblers , From illuminated mystical Con-joblers , From Presbyters , and Independent Traitors , And all such Creatures called Agitators , From these , the Devil , and worse , if worse may be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a conspiracy of wicked Knaves , A knot of Villains , and a crew of Slaves , From laying Plots for to abuse a Friend , From working humours to a wicked end : And from the place where Wolves and Foxes be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Raviliac's , Catalines , and Joyces , From factious brother's sniveling voices , From and Ireton or a Crumwell , Such blessed Saints that love a Bum-well , And from all Subject's that would Sovereigns be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From rusty Bacon and ill roasted Eeles , From a madding wit that runs on wheels , From a vapring humour and a beetle head , A smoky chimney and a lousy bed , A blow upon the elbow and the knee , From each of these goodness deliver me . From setting Virtue at too low a price , From losing too much coin at Cards and Dice , From Suretyship , and and empty purse , From any thing that may be termed worse : From all such ill wherein no good can be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Cockoldry , and a Coward City , From Harpies claws , and from a Committee ; From Satans Imps , all Sequestrators , Flesh-eating Canibals , State Regraters : From all such Thieves and Rogues my prayer shall be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Morbus Gallicus , and Spanish Figs , From a Welch Hubbub , and from Scottish Jigs , From wandering Preachers before they be sent , And from a seven-yeers Parliament , That never was , nor is , nor good will be , From each of these Virtue deliver me . From senior sympleton the good Lord Grey , From that State-Fox politic the Lord Say , Whose Nose like a Pickax beats down our Churches , From Nath : his Sons fierce sieges , and false lurches , From making use of such as these men be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Philip the fool , that swore he'd be Independent , From Piercy the puppy , or Protector transcenden From the Lord Wharton that valiant Moppet , Tom Thum in and Oven , and he in a Sawpit . From such as Apes , and Owls , and Asses be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Billy Brereton that Martial tool , That looks as sitting upon a close stool , From Colonel Martyn that peticoat-diver , And a chip o'th' same block , old Herefords Weaver : From Sir John Pots I'le prey , yes verily , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From the highly promoted Mr. Pury , Of a poor Weaver to be a State-Fury , From Marshal , and Burges , those Geneva Bulls , From Cawdry , and Calamy such spiritual Gulls , From all such holy Weathercocks as they be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . H : 180182 The Second Part to the same Tune . Or , The Letanie continued . Which may be sung or said , Morning or Evening , before or after Supper . FRom a painted Lady with black patches , From Parliament-men , and their lame dispatches , From midnight-hunting in another men Berry , From going over to Callis in a Wherry , And from the Black Rod where seven Nobles be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a proud Woodcock , and a peevish wife , From a pointless Needle , and a broken knife , From lying along in a Ladies Lap , Like a great Fool that longs for Pap , And from the fruit of the Three-cornered Tree , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From all Capon-eating holy Cobblers , From illuminated mystical Con-joblers , From Presbyters , and Independent Traitors , And all such Creatures called Agitators , From these , the Devil , and worse , if worse may be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From a conspiracy of wicked Knaves , A knot of Villains , and a crew of Slaves , From laying Plots for to abuse a Friend , From working humours to a wicked end : And from the place where Wolves and Foxes be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Raviliac's , Catalines , and Joyces , From factious brother's sniveling voices , From and Ireton or a Crumwell , Such blessed Saints that love a Bum-well , And from all Subject's that would Sovereigns be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From rusty Bacon and ill roasted Eeles , From a madding wit that runs on wheels , From a vapring humour and a beetle head , A smoky chimney and a lousy bed , A blow upon the elbow and the knee , From each of these goodness deliver me . From setting Virtue at too low a price , From losing too much coin at Cards and Dice , From Suretyship , and and empty purse , From any thing that may be termed worse : From all such ill wherein no good can be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Cockoldry , and a Coward City , From Harpies claws , and from a Committee ; From Satans Imps , all Sequestrators , Flesh-eating Canibals , State Regraters : From all such Thieves and Rogues my prayer shall be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Morbus Gallicus , and Spanish Figs , From a Welch Hubbub , and from Scottish Jigs , From wandering Preachers before they be sent , And from a seven-yeers Parliament , That never was , nor is , nor good will be , From each of these Virtue deliver me . From senior sympleton the good Lord Grey , From that State-Fox politic the Lord Say , Whose Nose like a Pickax beats down our Churches , From Nath : his Sons fierce sieges , and false lurches , From making use of such as these men be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Philip the fool , that swore he'd be Independent , From Piercy the puppy , or Protector transcenden From the Lord Wharton that valiant Moppet , Tom Thum in and Oven , and he in a Sawpit . From such as Apes , and Owls , and Asses be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From Billy Brereton that Martial tool , That looks as sitting upon a close stool , From Colonel Martyn that peticoat-diver , And a chip o'th' same block , old Herefords Weaver : From Sir John Pots I'le prey , yes verily , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . From the highly promoted Mr. Pury , Of a poor Weaver to be a State-Fury , From Marshal , and Burges , those Geneva Bulls , From Cawdry , and Calamy such spiritual Gulls , From all such holy Weathercocks as they be , Virtue and goodness still deliver me . 