H : 18325 A letter to Room , to declare to the Pope , John Felton his friend is hanged in a rope : And farther , a right his grace to inform , He died a Papist , and seemed not to turn . To the tune of Row well you Mariners . WHo keeps Saint Angel gates ? Where lies our holy father say ? I muze that no man waits , Nor comes to meet me on the way . Sir Pope I say ? if you be never , Bow down to me your listening ear : Come forth , bestir you then a pace , Foe I have news to show your grace . Stay not , come on , That I from hence were shortly gone : Hark well , hear me , What tidings I have brought to thee The Bull so lately sent To England by your holy grace , John Felton may repent For setting up the same in place : For he upon a goodly zeal He bore unto your common weal Hath ventured life to pleasure you , And now is hanged , I tell you true . Wherefore , sir Pope , In England have you lost your hope . Curse on , spare not , Your knights are like to go to pot . But further to declare , He died your obedient child : And never seemed to spare , For to exalt your doctrine wild : And told the people every one He died your obedient son And as he might , he did set forth , Your dignity thats nothing worth . Your trash , your toys , He took to be his only joys : Therefore , hath won , Of you the crown of martyrdom . Let him be shrined then According to his merits due , As you have others done That prove unto their Prince untrue : For these ( sir Pope ) you love of life , That with their Princes fallen at strife : Defending of your supreme pour , Yet some have paid full deer therefore . As now , lately , Your friend John Felton seemed to try Therefore , I pray , That you a mass for him will say . Ring all the bells in Room To do his sinful soul some good , Let that be done right soon Because that he hath shed his blood , His quarters stand not all together But the mai hap to ring them thither In place where you would have them be Then might you do as pleases you . For why ? they hang , Unshryned each one upon a stang : Thus stands , the case , On London gates they have a place . His head upon a pole Stands wavering in the wherling wind , But where should be his soul To you belongeth for to find : I wish you Purgatory look And search each corner with your hook , Lest it might chance or you be aware The Devils to catce him in a snare . Of you , him see , From Purgatory set him free : Let not , trudge than , Fetch Felton out and if you can . I wish you now sir Pope To look unto your faithful friends , That in your Bulls have hope To have your pardon for their sins , For here I tell you , every Lad Does scoff & scorn your bulls to bad , And think they shall the better fare For hating of your cursed ware . Now do , I end , I came to show you as a friend : Whither bless , or curse , You send to me , I am not the worse . FINIS . Steven Peele . Imprinted by Alexander Lacie for Henrie Kyrkham , dwelling at the sign of the black Boy : at the middle North door of Paules church . H : 18325 A letter to Room , to declare to the Pope , John Felton his friend is hanged in a rope : And farther , a right his grace to inform , He died a Papist , and seemed not to turn . To the tune of Row well you Mariners . WHo keeps Saint Angel gates ? Where lies our holy father say ? I muze that no man waits , Nor comes to meet me on the way . Sir Pope I say ? if you be never , Bow down to me your listening ear : Come forth , bestir you then a pace , Foe I have news to show your grace . Stay not , come on , That I from hence were shortly gone : Hark well , hear me , What tidings I have brought to thee The Bull so lately sent To England by your holy grace , John Felton may repent For setting up the same in place : For he upon a goodly zeal He bore unto your common weal Hath ventured life to pleasure you , And now is hanged , I tell you true . Wherefore , sir Pope , In England have you lost your hope . Curse on , spare not , Your knights are like to go to pot . But further to declare , He died your obedient child : And never seemed to spare , For to exalt your doctrine wild : And told the people every one He died your obedient son And as he might , he did set forth , Your dignity thats nothing worth . Your trash , your toys , He took to be his only joys : Therefore , hath won , Of you the crown of martyrdom . Let him be shrined then According to his merits due , As you have others done That prove unto their Prince untrue : For these ( sir Pope ) you love of life , That with their Princes fallen at strife : Defending of your supreme pour , Yet some have paid full deer therefore . As now , lately , Your friend John Felton seemed to try Therefore , I pray , That you a mass for him will say . Ring all the bells in Room To do his sinful soul some good , Let that be done right soon Because that he hath shed his blood , His quarters stand not all together But the mai hap to ring them thither In place where you would have them be Then might you do as pleases you . For why ? they hang , Unshryned each one upon a stang : Thus stands , the case , On London gates they have a place . His head upon a pole Stands wavering in the wherling wind , But where should be his soul To you belongeth for to find : I wish you Purgatory look And search each corner with your hook , Lest it might chance or you be aware The Devils to catce him in a snare . Of you , him see , From Purgatory set him free : Let not , trudge than , Fetch Felton out and if you can . I wish you now sir Pope To look unto your faithful friends , That in your Bulls have hope To have your pardon for their sins , For here I tell you , every Lad Does scoff & scorn your bulls to bad , And think they shall the better fare For hating of your cursed ware . Now do , I end , I came to show you as a friend : Whither bless , or curse , You send to me , I am not the worse . FINIS . Steven Peele . Imprinted by Alexander Lacie for Henrie Kyrkham , dwelling at the sign of the black Boy : at the middle North door of Paules church . 