H : 180197 The SUPPLICATION and LAMENTATION of George Fachney , and Officer in Caldwell's Regiment of Robbers , To Rob Roy in the Highlands , with Rob Roy's Answer . Now timely Running's no small Part Of Conduct in the martial Art. A Flyer may turn and fight again , Which he can never do that's slave . Hudibrass . A Lawland Robber in Distress , As by the following Lines ye'll guess Sends his Petition by Express , 'Tis his last Shift , Unto your Highland Mightiness , To lend a Lift . I'm e'en as fou of Grief and Wae , As e'er you was of Usquabae ; I ken not what to do or say , Tho' anes right stou For if that you shou'd say me nay , My Pipe's clean out . Greiv'd will you be to understand , That my new Reg'ment is trapan'd , The mayest Feck in the En'my's Hand , and tried by Law . I fear , I fear , it will disband , may that be a' You've thriv'n sae long at your bram Trade , And ay sae cannily you've sped : For a Fo'ks ken what Life you've led , nae very leil , That I rurn'd sond , and unco glad to rob and steal . My Colonel's raised the Huy and Cry , ( Tho' he in the Tollbooth does lie , To bring me in that I may die , Hang like a Dog : 'Cause from my Colours I did fly , He's but a Rogue . Now I'll be judg'd by you dear Rob , If I be taken by the Mob , In Hangie's Halter I man bob , A fair Affron It gars me e'en baith Sighs and Sob To think upon't . Tell me what can I do alane , When a the rest are either Taken , By wicked Bailies or they'r gane , I ken nae where ; It's e'en to you , I'll make my Main , My Heart's right sair . And O! it were and unko pity , To think upon't it gars me greet ay , For to destroy this brae bandity , Padders sae good . Wae fa the Baillies of the city , That seeks our blood . But you defy ay a your foes , E'en Gallant Grahmes and their Montrose , You pit their hearts into their hose ; And dings them a : And when your Claymore deals its blows , You scour avua . It's true but that's a Matter small , Ye've lost your Fortune and your Saul , Easy are you if that be all ; Ye're nae fair wrang'd But it would e'en provoke foks Gall : For to be hang'd Na your Estate can near be spent , For though it's forfeit your content , And ilk a Year you draw the Rend Leaving a Line . Then aff gae you and scours the Bent , To drink your wine , With your blithe Lads 'mang highland Hills , You Usque drink in Cogs not Gills , Tossing about your snishing-Mills , And their the jouk : And little thinks that forging Bills , Gars my neck youk . Now gallant Rob , 'tis in your Power Us from the Gallows to secure , Come down in this unlucky Hour , tty to get back . The Fame you lost at Sheriffmuir , mind that's the Knack , Dear Rob , believe what I'm to tell : For I'm nae Rogue , more than your fell But e'en a Gamester very fell , as e'er was seen ; If ye'll steal aft my Colonel , and save him clean , I'll give the Tiend of all I gain , By throwing up a lucky Main , Or using Tricks Legerdemain , or win at Cards : And you may e'en be very vain of sick Rewards . Sae if you please to grant my boon . Save him from dying in his Shoes , Send me and answer very soon ; I'll say no more , Direct to me at the half Moon : Upon Leith shore . Rob. Roy's Answer Your bold Address I do reject , Go Villains and swing by the Neck , Had there been sense in your Caball ; You would have done like great Du-vall : Brought straying Lawyers to their Knees , Till they resing'd superfluous Fees . For all the World knows that they , Rob in their own allowed highway , Or had you made a brisk Attack , Lay'd the Quack Doctor on his Back . Till he lay'd down upon the Spot , What he for killing Patients god , Or had you seiz'd on unfree Traders , ( Oh you had done like honnest Padders , ) Who damn their Souls to cheat the Prince , And send abroad the British Pence . But since you are but punny Rakes , Riffling the honest Pedlars Packs , Robbing from this and that poor Sinner , Who scarce know where to get their Din-ner Go and be hang'd , you can't do better , Take this for Answer to your Letter . FINIS . H : 180197 The SUPPLICATION and LAMENTATION of George Fachney , and Officer in Caldwell's Regiment of Robbers , To Rob Roy in the Highlands , with Rob Roy's Answer . Now timely Running's no small Part Of Conduct in the martial Art. A Flyer may turn and fight again , Which he can never do that's slave . Hudibrass . A Lawland Robber in Distress , As by the following Lines ye'll guess Sends his Petition by Express , 'Tis his last Shift , Unto your Highland Mightiness , To lend a Lift . I'm e'en as fou of Grief and Wae , As e'er you was of Usquabae ; I ken not what to do or say , Tho' anes right stou For if that you shou'd say me nay , My Pipe's clean out . Greiv'd will you be to understand , That my new Reg'ment is trapan'd , The mayest Feck in the En'my's Hand , and tried by Law . I fear , I fear , it will disband , may that be a' You've thriv'n sae long at your bram Trade , And ay sae cannily you've sped : For a Fo'ks ken what Life you've led , nae very leil , That I rurn'd sond , and unco glad to rob and steal . My Colonel's raised the Huy and Cry , ( Tho' he in the Tollbooth does lie , To bring me in that I may die , Hang like a Dog : 'Cause from my Colours I did fly , He's but a Rogue . Now I'll be judg'd by you dear Rob , If I be taken by the Mob , In Hangie's Halter I man bob , A fair Affron It gars me e'en baith Sighs and Sob To think upon't . Tell me what can I do alane , When a the rest are either Taken , By wicked Bailies or they'r gane , I ken nae where ; It's e'en to you , I'll make my Main , My Heart's right sair . And O! it were and unko pity , To think upon't it gars me greet ay , For to destroy this brae bandity , Padders sae good . Wae fa the Baillies of the city , That seeks our blood . But you defy ay a your foes , E'en Gallant Grahmes and their Montrose , You pit their hearts into their hose ; And dings them a : And when your Claymore deals its blows , You scour avua . It's true but that's a Matter small , Ye've lost your Fortune and your Saul , Easy are you if that be all ; Ye're nae fair wrang'd But it would e'en provoke foks Gall : For to be hang'd Na your Estate can near be spent , For though it's forfeit your content , And ilk a Year you draw the Rend Leaving a Line . Then aff gae you and scours the Bent , To drink your wine , With your blithe Lads 'mang highland Hills , You Usque drink in Cogs not Gills , Tossing about your snishing-Mills , And their the jouk : And little thinks that forging Bills , Gars my neck youk . Now gallant Rob , 'tis in your Power Us from the Gallows to secure , Come down in this unlucky Hour , tty to get back . The Fame you lost at Sheriffmuir , mind that's the Knack , Dear Rob , believe what I'm to tell : For I'm nae Rogue , more than your fell But e'en a Gamester very fell , as e'er was seen ; If ye'll steal aft my Colonel , and save him clean , I'll give the Tiend of all I gain , By throwing up a lucky Main , Or using Tricks Legerdemain , or win at Cards : And you may e'en be very vain of sick Rewards . Sae if you please to grant my boon . Save him from dying in his Shoes , Send me and answer very soon ; I'll say no more , Direct to me at the half Moon : Upon Leith shore . Rob. Roy's Answer Your bold Address I do reject , Go Villains and swing by the Neck , Had there been sense in your Caball ; You would have done like great Du-vall : Brought straying Lawyers to their Knees , Till they resing'd superfluous Fees . For all the World knows that they , Rob in their own allowed highway , Or had you made a brisk Attack , Lay'd the Quack Doctor on his Back . Till he lay'd down upon the Spot , What he for killing Patients god , Or had you seiz'd on unfree Traders , ( Oh you had done like honnest Padders , ) Who damn their Souls to cheat the Prince , And send abroad the British Pence . But since you are but punny Rakes , Riffling the honest Pedlars Packs , Robbing from this and that poor Sinner , Who scarce know where to get their Din-ner Go and be hang'd , you can't do better , Take this for Answer to your Letter . FINIS . 