H : 180192 A POEM UPON THE Imprisonment of Mr. Calamy in Newgate . By Robert Wild , D.D. Author of the late Iter Boreale . THis Page I send you Sir , your Newgate Fate Not to condole , but to congratulate . I envy not our Mitred men , their Places Their rich Preferments , nor their richer F [ a ] ces : To see them Steeple upon Steeple set , As if they meant that way to Heaven to get I can behold them take into their Gills A dose of Churches , as men swallow Pill , And never grieve at i Let them swim in Wine While others drown in tears , I'le not repine , But my heart truly grudges ( I confess ) That you thus loaded are with happiness ; For so it is : And you more blessed are In Peters Chain , than if you set in's Chair . One Sermon hath preferr'd you so much Honour , A man could scarce have had from Bishop Bonner ; While we ( your Brothers ) poor Erratics be , You are a glorious fixed Star we see . Hundreds of us turn out of House and Home , To a safe Habitation you are come . What though it be a Gaol ? Shame and Disgrace Rise only from the Crime , not from the place . Who thinks reproach or injury is done B [ y and Eclipse ] to the [ uns ] potted Sun ? He only by that black upon his brow Allures spectators more ; and so do you . Let me find Honey , though upon a Rod , And prize the Prison , where my Keeper's God : Newgate or Hell were Heaven if Christ were there , He made the Stable so , and Sepulchre . Indeed the place did for your presence call ; Prisons do want perfuming most of all . Thanks to the Bishop and his good Lord Mayor , Who turn'd the Den of Thieves into a House of Prayer : And may some Thief by you converted be , Like him who suffer'd in Christs company . Now would I had sighed of your Mittimus ; Fa [ i ] n would I know why you are dealt with thus . Jailor , set forth your Prisoner at the Bar , Sir , you shall hear what your offences are . First , It is prov'd that you being dead in Law ( As if you car'd not for that death a straw ) Did walk and haunt your Church , as if you [ ' ] ld scare Away the Reader and his Common-Prayer . Nay 'twill be prov'd you did not only walk , But like a Puritan your Ghost did talk . Dead , and yet Preach ! these Presbyterian slaves Will not give over Preaching in their Graves . Item , You played the Thief , and ift be so , Good reason ( Sir ) to Newgate you should go : And now you're there , some dare to swear you are The greatest Pickpocket that ere came there : Your Wise too , little better then your self you make , She is the Receiver of each Purse you take . But your great Theft , you act it in your Church , ( I do not mean you did your Sermon lurch , That's crime Canonical ) but you did pray And preach , so that you stole men's hearts away . So that good man to whom your place does fallen , will find they have no heart for him at all : This Felony deserv'd Imprisonment ; What can't you Nonconformist be content Sermons to make except you preach them too ; They that your places have , this Work can't do . Thirdly , 'tis prov'd , when you pray most devout For all good men , you leave the Bishops ou This makes Seer Sheldon by his powerful spell Conjure and lay you safe in Newgate-hell : Would I were there too , I should like it well . I would you durst swaft punishment with me ; Pain makes me fitter for the company Of roaring boys ; and you may lie a bed , Now your Name's up ; pray do it in my stead , And if it be deny'd us to change places , Let us for sympathy compare our cases ; For if in suffering we both agree , Sir , I may challenge you to pity me : I am the older Goal-bird ; my hard fate Hath kept me twenty years in Cripple-gate ; Old Bishop Gout , that Lordly proud disease , Took my fat body for his Diocese , Where he keeps Court , there visits every Limb , And makes them ( Levite-like ) conform to him . Severely he does Article each joint , And makes enquiry into every poin A bitter enemy to preaching ; he Hath half a year sometime suspended me : And if he find me painful in my station , Down I am sure to go next Visitation : He binds up , loses ; sets up and pulls down ; Pretends he draws ill humours from the Crown : But I am sure he makes such ado , His humours trouble Head and members too : He hath me now in hand , and ere he goes , I fear for Heretics he'le burn my toes . O! I would give all I am worth , a fee , That from his jurisdiction I were free . Now Sir , you find our sufferings do agree , One Bishop clapped up you another me : But o ! the difference too is very great , You are allow'd to walk , to drink and eat , I want them all , and never a penny get . And though you be debar'd your liberty , Yet all your Visitors I hope are free , Good men , good women and good Angels come And make your Prison better then your home . Now may it be so till your foes repent They gave you such a rich Imprisonment . May for the greater comfort of your lives , Your lying in be better then your Wives . May you a thousand friendly papers see , And none prove empty , except this from me . And if you stay may I come keep your door , Then farewell Parsonage , I shall ne're be poor . FINIS . H : 180192 A POEM UPON THE Imprisonment of Mr. Calamy in Newgate . By Robert Wild , D.D. Author of the late Iter Boreale . THis Page I send you Sir , your Newgate Fate Not to condole , but to congratulate . I envy not our Mitred men , their Places Their rich Preferments , nor their richer F [ a ] ces : To see them Steeple upon Steeple set , As if they meant that way to Heaven to get I can behold them take into their Gills A dose of Churches , as men swallow Pill , And never grieve at i Let them swim in Wine While others drown in tears , I'le not repine , But my heart truly grudges ( I confess ) That you thus loaded are with happiness ; For so it is : And you more blessed are In Peters Chain , than if you set in's Chair . One Sermon hath preferr'd you so much Honour , A man could scarce have had from Bishop Bonner ; While we ( your Brothers ) poor Erratics be , You are a glorious fixed Star we see . Hundreds of us turn out of House and Home , To a safe Habitation you are come . What though it be a Gaol ? Shame and Disgrace Rise only from the Crime , not from the place . Who thinks reproach or injury is done B [ y and Eclipse ] to the [ uns ] potted Sun ? He only by that black upon his brow Allures spectators more ; and so do you . Let me find Honey , though upon a Rod , And prize the Prison , where my Keeper's God : Newgate or Hell were Heaven if Christ were there , He made the Stable so , and Sepulchre . Indeed the place did for your presence call ; Prisons do want perfuming most of all . Thanks to the Bishop and his good Lord Mayor , Who turn'd the Den of Thieves into a House of Prayer : And may some Thief by you converted be , Like him who suffer'd in Christs company . Now would I had sighed of your Mittimus ; Fa [ i ] n would I know why you are dealt with thus . Jailor , set forth your Prisoner at the Bar , Sir , you shall hear what your offences are . First , It is prov'd that you being dead in Law ( As if you car'd not for that death a straw ) Did walk and haunt your Church , as if you [ ' ] ld scare Away the Reader and his Common-Prayer . Nay 'twill be prov'd you did not only walk , But like a Puritan your Ghost did talk . Dead , and yet Preach ! these Presbyterian slaves Will not give over Preaching in their Graves . Item , You played the Thief , and ift be so , Good reason ( Sir ) to Newgate you should go : And now you're there , some dare to swear you are The greatest Pickpocket that ere came there : Your Wise too , little better then your self you make , She is the Receiver of each Purse you take . But your great Theft , you act it in your Church , ( I do not mean you did your Sermon lurch , That's crime Canonical ) but you did pray And preach , so that you stole men's hearts away . So that good man to whom your place does fallen , will find they have no heart for him at all : This Felony deserv'd Imprisonment ; What can't you Nonconformist be content Sermons to make except you preach them too ; They that your places have , this Work can't do . Thirdly , 'tis prov'd , when you pray most devout For all good men , you leave the Bishops ou This makes Seer Sheldon by his powerful spell Conjure and lay you safe in Newgate-hell : Would I were there too , I should like it well . I would you durst swaft punishment with me ; Pain makes me fitter for the company Of roaring boys ; and you may lie a bed , Now your Name's up ; pray do it in my stead , And if it be deny'd us to change places , Let us for sympathy compare our cases ; For if in suffering we both agree , Sir , I may challenge you to pity me : I am the older Goal-bird ; my hard fate Hath kept me twenty years in Cripple-gate ; Old Bishop Gout , that Lordly proud disease , Took my fat body for his Diocese , Where he keeps Court , there visits every Limb , And makes them ( Levite-like ) conform to him . Severely he does Article each joint , And makes enquiry into every poin A bitter enemy to preaching ; he Hath half a year sometime suspended me : And if he find me painful in my station , Down I am sure to go next Visitation : He binds up , loses ; sets up and pulls down ; Pretends he draws ill humours from the Crown : But I am sure he makes such ado , His humours trouble Head and members too : He hath me now in hand , and ere he goes , I fear for Heretics he'le burn my toes . O! I would give all I am worth , a fee , That from his jurisdiction I were free . Now Sir , you find our sufferings do agree , One Bishop clapped up you another me : But o ! the difference too is very great , You are allow'd to walk , to drink and eat , I want them all , and never a penny get . And though you be debar'd your liberty , Yet all your Visitors I hope are free , Good men , good women and good Angels come And make your Prison better then your home . Now may it be so till your foes repent They gave you such a rich Imprisonment . May for the greater comfort of your lives , Your lying in be better then your Wives . May you a thousand friendly papers see , And none prove empty , except this from me . And if you stay may I come keep your door , Then farewell Parsonage , I shall ne're be poor . FINIS . 