H : 180198 A DIALOGUE between George Fachney and Alexan - der Pennicuik . A Time our Poet met wi' Fackney , Whom he ance cau'd the Devil's Hackney And fearing lest he shou'd him quarrel , He hid himself behind a Barrel . Now you maun ken that he was drinking , Which he did ay whan's Pouch was clinking . Then Geordie rais'd a hideous Roar , And cry'd , he's here , let's close the Door . He then fell to , to curse and ban , And in great Rage he thus began . GEORDIE . Now you base Scoundrel I have god you , And be my Suth I winna quat you , Till I'm reveng'd on your dull Snout , For all these Lees that's gaun about ; You was the Author I can swear , And for the same ye's now pay dear . SANDY . Dear Sir , what gars you curse and ban ? I ne'er did Harm to only Man ; I hated Quarrels a' my Life , And lived always free of Strife ; But you have put me in sick Fright , I'll kiss your A ------ se if ye'll me qui And if of you I've said ought ill , For that I'll now come in your Will . GEORDIE . I winna take sick sham Excuses Frae only Man wha me abuses ; There's nane in Scotland , but what kens That you ha'e gi'en me just Offence ; Ye've publish'd money a lying Story , Thinking thereby to gain some Glory ; And for to win a half a Crown , Ye've made my Name ring through the Town ; Now in my Rage I'll on you fallen , And pay you soundly ance for all . SANDY . For my Wife's sake , let me a-be , And nae mae of my Lines ye's see . If you shou'd take my scoundrel Life , What would become of Bairns and Wife ? A' that I wrote was to get Bred , Or else I swear we'd a' been dead . GEORDIE . What's that to me , you silly Devil ! If you had been discreet and civil , Or if ye'd come and said to me , Dear Fackney I am like to die , I want some Cash to buy my Dinner , I would ha'e gi'en ye't , drunken Sinner . SANDY . Rather than trouble any Man , I would use a' the Means I can ; But now to you , upon my Knees , I will confess my former Lies , And tho' I shou'd ne'er gain a Farthin , I'll own my Fault , and crave you Pardon . GEORDY . A' that is no enough to me , Ye'r Crime's sae great you ought to die ; For first of a' , to win some Bodles , You said I burned a Burger's Dodles : You base Whore's Son , as lang's I live These horrid Lies I'll ne'er forgive . Your Tears shall not your Crime atone , My P --- k you said was nail'd to Throne ; And then upon the Gallowlee You hanged baith Burnbank and me : And now of late , to my Amazement , You've put me in Caldwell's Regiement ; And for to make your Nonsense pass , You stole your Rhimes from Hudibrass . For all these Faults now put together , Altho' you were my only Brother , You soud na stir out frae this Place , Tho' it sou'd be to my Disgrace , I'd make you for your Folly smart , And make my Sword run through your Heart . But seeing you my Pardon crave , And own yourself my humble Slave , I'll grant unto you your Petition , And save your Life on this Condition , That if you e'er again proclaim , Or publish through the Streets my Name , In only Paper , Verse or Prose , Ye'll be content to loose ye'r Nose . SANDY . Content , quoth Sandy , if I do , May I be scurg'd and hanged too . After this lang Debate and Quarrel , Sandy came out frae hind the Barrel ; Sin baith the twa sat down together , And kiss't and clap't ilk ane another ; And then fell to and drank sae clean , Till baith of them 'maist tint their Een ; In short they baith fell to to spew , We'll leave them here , and bid adieu . FINIS . H : 180198 A DIALOGUE between George Fachney and Alexan - der Pennicuik . A Time our Poet met wi' Fackney , Whom he ance cau'd the Devil's Hackney And fearing lest he shou'd him quarrel , He hid himself behind a Barrel . Now you maun ken that he was drinking , Which he did ay whan's Pouch was clinking . Then Geordie rais'd a hideous Roar , And cry'd , he's here , let's close the Door . He then fell to , to curse and ban , And in great Rage he thus began . GEORDIE . Now you base Scoundrel I have god you , And be my Suth I winna quat you , Till I'm reveng'd on your dull Snout , For all these Lees that's gaun about ; You was the Author I can swear , And for the same ye's now pay dear . SANDY . Dear Sir , what gars you curse and ban ? I ne'er did Harm to only Man ; I hated Quarrels a' my Life , And lived always free of Strife ; But you have put me in sick Fright , I'll kiss your A ------ se if ye'll me qui And if of you I've said ought ill , For that I'll now come in your Will . GEORDIE . I winna take sick sham Excuses Frae only Man wha me abuses ; There's nane in Scotland , but what kens That you ha'e gi'en me just Offence ; Ye've publish'd money a lying Story , Thinking thereby to gain some Glory ; And for to win a half a Crown , Ye've made my Name ring through the Town ; Now in my Rage I'll on you fallen , And pay you soundly ance for all . SANDY . For my Wife's sake , let me a-be , And nae mae of my Lines ye's see . If you shou'd take my scoundrel Life , What would become of Bairns and Wife ? A' that I wrote was to get Bred , Or else I swear we'd a' been dead . GEORDIE . What's that to me , you silly Devil ! If you had been discreet and civil , Or if ye'd come and said to me , Dear Fackney I am like to die , I want some Cash to buy my Dinner , I would ha'e gi'en ye't , drunken Sinner . SANDY . Rather than trouble any Man , I would use a' the Means I can ; But now to you , upon my Knees , I will confess my former Lies , And tho' I shou'd ne'er gain a Farthin , I'll own my Fault , and crave you Pardon . GEORDY . A' that is no enough to me , Ye'r Crime's sae great you ought to die ; For first of a' , to win some Bodles , You said I burned a Burger's Dodles : You base Whore's Son , as lang's I live These horrid Lies I'll ne'er forgive . Your Tears shall not your Crime atone , My P --- k you said was nail'd to Throne ; And then upon the Gallowlee You hanged baith Burnbank and me : And now of late , to my Amazement , You've put me in Caldwell's Regiement ; And for to make your Nonsense pass , You stole your Rhimes from Hudibrass . For all these Faults now put together , Altho' you were my only Brother , You soud na stir out frae this Place , Tho' it sou'd be to my Disgrace , I'd make you for your Folly smart , And make my Sword run through your Heart . But seeing you my Pardon crave , And own yourself my humble Slave , I'll grant unto you your Petition , And save your Life on this Condition , That if you e'er again proclaim , Or publish through the Streets my Name , In only Paper , Verse or Prose , Ye'll be content to loose ye'r Nose . SANDY . Content , quoth Sandy , if I do , May I be scurg'd and hanged too . After this lang Debate and Quarrel , Sandy came out frae hind the Barrel ; Sin baith the twa sat down together , And kiss't and clap't ilk ane another ; And then fell to and drank sae clean , Till baith of them 'maist tint their Een ; In short they baith fell to to spew , We'll leave them here , and bid adieu . FINIS . 