H : 180195 Burnbank's Farewell to Edin - burgh , at his Departure for the Indies , with his last Will and Testament . WAES me , old Reikie , we man part , Bore is my Pouch , and sare my Heart , Tho' I was anes thought unko smart , And fow o'Wiles , Alake , old Neck , wi' his black Art , Wise Folk beguiles ! 2. My Bennison light on them a' , Speaks good of me when I'm avua . Wae worth the Judges oh the Law , Called be their Cast , The blackest Sighed that e'er I saw , They've prov'd at last . 3. Anes in a Day I thought my fell , Sae very sicker , and sae fell , I could outwit the De'il in Hell , Cunning is he , Wi' meikle Shame , I'm forc'd to tell , He's cheated me . 4. the wonnie find the like o' me , Betwixt Kirkcudbright and Dundee ; For cliver was I at a Plea , As ere you saw , Frae a the Rakes I boar the Gree , And dang them a' . 5. Tho' I look grave as Prophet Samuel , And am a feckless , ill grown Bramble , Yet , when I god upon the Ramble , Take you my Word , The prettiest Man fear'd Jamie Campbell , Wi' his short Sword . 6. Yae Day I met with Colonel Vauss , A Man amest as big's the Bass ; And 'cause I could not reach his Hass , I prick'd his Wame , I true , the Colonel god his Pass , Went cripling Hame . 7. But now sen I must make a Trip , I'l e'en contrive to cheat the Ship , And when I've play'd a souple Slip , Never fear it , I'll to the Madagascars skip , And turn Pyrate . 8. Ye'll hear good News o' me , I hope , I'l be as great a Man's the Pope , For to deceive was ay my Scope , Folk muny starve , L --- worser keep my Neck lang frae the Rope , I well deserve . My last WILL . IN Case that I be drown'd or hang'd ; That nane of a' my Friends be wrang'd , I leave a' Gear that e're belan'gd To me in Life , Among the Women that I've bang'd , Except my Wife . 2. Out o' the readiest o' my Gear , Five Shillings , and the Breeks I wear , To Thomas Shiels the Bombardier , To slocken Drouth ; No out of Kindness , but for Fear He tell the Truth . 3. I leave Law Pleasant to Ross o' Neuck , Whose bonny Castle Post I took . And nathing paid , by Hook or Crook , I was sae slim ; My Malison to Pennecuick , The plague rot him . 4. A wally Testimonial he Has to the Indians sent wi' me , I hope to meet him ere I die , He'll change his Tune , I'l gar him meikle Penance dree , For what he's done . 5. To Robin Roy , my Highland Durk , Wi' which I aft made bloodly Work , And fought wi' Messengers ( like Turk , ) and Georde Young , Wha said my Head was light like Cork , But now I'm dung . 6. Because I dare na well deny , I cheated Lethem and M'kay , Whose Heirs will curse me till they die , I'll Counsel give , To go alongst wi' me for I , Will make them live . 7. As for the Bairns of Sandy Scot , Whom I tricked out of every Grot , I leave to them my old Plush Coat , 'Twas anes bren new ; The Way I got it wha knows not ? Which some Folk rue . 8. Now , Fare you well , my dainty Kate , I lov'd you ay you ged so fe And if the World dinno mend , Come to me , and we'll make a Fend : You need nae fear ; for your daft End , And my wise Head , Are Things by which we may depend To win our Bred . FINIS . H : 180195 Burnbank's Farewell to Edin - burgh , at his Departure for the Indies , with his last Will and Testament . WAES me , old Reikie , we man part , Bore is my Pouch , and sare my Heart , Tho' I was anes thought unko smart , And fow o'Wiles , Alake , old Neck , wi' his black Art , Wise Folk beguiles ! 2. My Bennison light on them a' , Speaks good of me when I'm avua . Wae worth the Judges oh the Law , Called be their Cast , The blackest Sighed that e'er I saw , They've prov'd at last . 3. Anes in a Day I thought my fell , Sae very sicker , and sae fell , I could outwit the De'il in Hell , Cunning is he , Wi' meikle Shame , I'm forc'd to tell , He's cheated me . 4. the wonnie find the like o' me , Betwixt Kirkcudbright and Dundee ; For cliver was I at a Plea , As ere you saw , Frae a the Rakes I boar the Gree , And dang them a' . 5. Tho' I look grave as Prophet Samuel , And am a feckless , ill grown Bramble , Yet , when I god upon the Ramble , Take you my Word , The prettiest Man fear'd Jamie Campbell , Wi' his short Sword . 6. Yae Day I met with Colonel Vauss , A Man amest as big's the Bass ; And 'cause I could not reach his Hass , I prick'd his Wame , I true , the Colonel god his Pass , Went cripling Hame . 7. But now sen I must make a Trip , I'l e'en contrive to cheat the Ship , And when I've play'd a souple Slip , Never fear it , I'll to the Madagascars skip , And turn Pyrate . 8. Ye'll hear good News o' me , I hope , I'l be as great a Man's the Pope , For to deceive was ay my Scope , Folk muny starve , L --- worser keep my Neck lang frae the Rope , I well deserve . My last WILL . IN Case that I be drown'd or hang'd ; That nane of a' my Friends be wrang'd , I leave a' Gear that e're belan'gd To me in Life , Among the Women that I've bang'd , Except my Wife . 2. Out o' the readiest o' my Gear , Five Shillings , and the Breeks I wear , To Thomas Shiels the Bombardier , To slocken Drouth ; No out of Kindness , but for Fear He tell the Truth . 3. I leave Law Pleasant to Ross o' Neuck , Whose bonny Castle Post I took . And nathing paid , by Hook or Crook , I was sae slim ; My Malison to Pennecuick , The plague rot him . 4. A wally Testimonial he Has to the Indians sent wi' me , I hope to meet him ere I die , He'll change his Tune , I'l gar him meikle Penance dree , For what he's done . 5. To Robin Roy , my Highland Durk , Wi' which I aft made bloodly Work , And fought wi' Messengers ( like Turk , ) and Georde Young , Wha said my Head was light like Cork , But now I'm dung . 6. Because I dare na well deny , I cheated Lethem and M'kay , Whose Heirs will curse me till they die , I'll Counsel give , To go alongst wi' me for I , Will make them live . 7. As for the Bairns of Sandy Scot , Whom I tricked out of every Grot , I leave to them my old Plush Coat , 'Twas anes bren new ; The Way I got it wha knows not ? Which some Folk rue . 8. Now , Fare you well , my dainty Kate , I lov'd you ay you ged so fe And if the World dinno mend , Come to me , and we'll make a Fend : You need nae fear ; for your daft End , And my wise Head , Are Things by which we may depend To win our Bred . FINIS . 