H : 183925 The POPE Haunted with Ghosts , in Relation to Sir Edmundbury Godfrey's Murder , and the late Sainted Traitors , The Figures being by the Verses at large Explained . Nuncio . Horrors and Death ! what dismal Sights Invade His Nightly Slumbers , who in Blood does Trade . Hear how they Curse him all , but he who fell Great Brittains Sacrifice by Imps of Hell ; 1. Pope . How do my Eye-Balls Roll , and Blood run back , What Tortures at this sighed my Conscience Rack ; Oh! Mountains now fallen on me , some deep Cave Pity me once , and prove my speedy Grave , 2. Fiend . By Hells Grim King's Command , on whom I wait I've brought your Saint his Story to relate ; His Torments , and the Horrid Cheat condole , You fix'd on him to Rob him of his Soul. 1. Pope . Oh! spare my Ears I'le no such Horrors hear ; 3. Coleman . You must , and know your own Damnation's near You must e're long be Plung'd in Grizzly Flame Which I shall Laugh to see , tho' Rack'd with pain 1. Pope . Horrors ! this Dismal , I can hear no more , O! Hell and Furies , how I have lost my Pow'r 4. Sir E. Godfrey . See Sir this Crimson Stain , this baleful Wound See Murther'd me , with Joys Eternal Crown'd From Sacred Bliss my Swift-Wing'd Soul did glide Conducted hither by my Angel-Guide , To let thee know thy Sands are almost run , And that thy Thread of Life is well nigh Spun ; Repent you then , Wash off the Bloody Stain , Or You'l be Doom'd to Everlasting Pain . 5. Angel . Come Worthy of Seraphic Joys Above , Worthy Our Converse , and our Sacred Love ; Come let us hence , and leave him to his Fate , When Divine Vengeance shall the Business State 1. Pope . Chill Horror seizes me , I cannot fly ; O Ghastly ! yet more Apparitions , nigh . 6. Whitebread . Thus wandering through the gloomy Shades at last I've found Thee , Traitor , that my Joys did blast , The half what we Endure no Tongue can Tell ; The Endless Tortures we Endure in Hell , This for a Bishopric I undergo , But now would give Earth's Empire wer't not so . 1. Pope Retire , good Ghosts , or I shall Die with Fear 7. Harcourt . Nay Stay Sir , first you must my Story hear : How cou'd you thus Delude your Bosom Friend , Your Foes to Heaven , and us to Hell thus send ; Damnation seize you for't , e're long you'l be Plung'd Headlong into vast Eternity ; 1. Pope . Ho! Cardinals and Bishops haste with Speed , Bell , Book , and Candle fetch , let me be freed : Ah! 'tis too late , by Fear Intranc'd I lie , 8. Bishop . Herd you that Groan ? with speed from hence let's fly 9. Cardinal . The Fiend has god him , doubtless let's away , And in this ghastly place no longer stay . FINIS . H : 183925 The POPE Haunted with Ghosts , in Relation to Sir Edmundbury Godfrey's Murder , and the late Sainted Traitors , The Figures being by the Verses at large Explained . Nuncio . Horrors and Death ! what dismal Sights Invade His Nightly Slumbers , who in Blood does Trade . Hear how they Curse him all , but he who fell Great Brittains Sacrifice by Imps of Hell ; 1. Pope . How do my Eye-Balls Roll , and Blood run back , What Tortures at this sighed my Conscience Rack ; Oh! Mountains now fallen on me , some deep Cave Pity me once , and prove my speedy Grave , 2. Fiend . By Hells Grim King's Command , on whom I wait I've brought your Saint his Story to relate ; His Torments , and the Horrid Cheat condole , You fix'd on him to Rob him of his Soul. 1. Pope . Oh! spare my Ears I'le no such Horrors hear ; 3. Coleman . You must , and know your own Damnation's near You must e're long be Plung'd in Grizzly Flame Which I shall Laugh to see , tho' Rack'd with pain 1. Pope . Horrors ! this Dismal , I can hear no more , O! Hell and Furies , how I have lost my Pow'r 4. Sir E. Godfrey . See Sir this Crimson Stain , this baleful Wound See Murther'd me , with Joys Eternal Crown'd From Sacred Bliss my Swift-Wing'd Soul did glide Conducted hither by my Angel-Guide , To let thee know thy Sands are almost run , And that thy Thread of Life is well nigh Spun ; Repent you then , Wash off the Bloody Stain , Or You'l be Doom'd to Everlasting Pain . 5. Angel . Come Worthy of Seraphic Joys Above , Worthy Our Converse , and our Sacred Love ; Come let us hence , and leave him to his Fate , When Divine Vengeance shall the Business State 1. Pope . Chill Horror seizes me , I cannot fly ; O Ghastly ! yet more Apparitions , nigh . 6. Whitebread . Thus wandering through the gloomy Shades at last I've found Thee , Traitor , that my Joys did blast , The half what we Endure no Tongue can Tell ; The Endless Tortures we Endure in Hell , This for a Bishopric I undergo , But now would give Earth's Empire wer't not so . 1. Pope Retire , good Ghosts , or I shall Die with Fear 7. Harcourt . Nay Stay Sir , first you must my Story hear : How cou'd you thus Delude your Bosom Friend , Your Foes to Heaven , and us to Hell thus send ; Damnation seize you for't , e're long you'l be Plung'd Headlong into vast Eternity ; 1. Pope . Ho! Cardinals and Bishops haste with Speed , Bell , Book , and Candle fetch , let me be freed : Ah! 'tis too late , by Fear Intranc'd I lie , 8. Bishop . Herd you that Groan ? with speed from hence let's fly 9. Cardinal . The Fiend has god him , doubtless let's away , And in this ghastly place no longer stay . FINIS . 