H : 183906 STRANGE'S CASE , STRANGELY ALTERED Or , a HUE and CRY after a Strange old Yorkish Tike full of Black and Blue , Read and Yellow Spots , of a Motley , Dun , Brindled , ill-livered Colour ; neither Mastiff nor Mongrel , Tumbler or Lurcher , Lap-Dog nor Setter , Bull-Dog or Bear-Dog , Wolf-Dog or Sheep-Biter , but all of them : of a Strange Amphibious Nature , lives on Land or on Water , in Court or in Kennel , run away from his Master , about the 26th Instant , seen on Saturday last behind a Coach , between Sam's Coffee-House , and Madam Cellier's , whoever hath ( or shall ) take him up , have a special care of him ( unless you know his ill qualities ) for he has a thousand Dog-Tricks , ( viz. ) to Fetch for the Papists , Carry for the Protestants , Whine to the King , Dance to Noll's Fiddle , Fawn on the Courtier , Leap at their Crusts , wag his Tail at all Bitches , hunt Counter to the Plot , Tonge-Pad the Evidence , and Cringe to the Crucifix ; but above all this , he has one damn'd old trick of slipping the Halter . If there be any that can give notice of this dangerous Cur , to the men in Authority ( who have been several days in Grand Quest after him ) or bring him ( if he be not there already ) to the Sign of the Popes Demi-Culverin , next Door to the Masquerade Committee , in the Street of St. Lord , or to the Tantivy Abhorrers , at the Levitical-Club-House in Ave-Mary-Alley , so that he may be tied up from his Meat , for the Good of the Public ; he will do his Country good Service , the Protestants Right , the Law Justice , the King a Kindness , un - deceive the Church , and himself a mighty Favour in obtaining the Marks-Royal , of a Loyal true Englishman , a Right good Protestant , and a hearty Lover of his King and Country ; all which shall be paid him down ( on the Spot ) for his honest Care and Pains . The Figures above may be thus Explained . I . WAS ever Gallows better set , Where Hangman , Rope and Roger met ? No Fault at all ( save one ) The Cur by chance the Noose did slip , By help of Devil and his Whip , Ill Luck as could have come . II Thus having 'scapt the Fatal Tree In devilish haste , away flies he For Scotland , France or Rome ; No matter which ( for all he strives ) And needs must go , when Devil drives , Together with his BROME . III . The Cur thus scar'd , is skulked from Town , With Cross , and Beads , and Pen in's Crown , About his Neck the Rope , Was Fellow to the self same String In which St. Coleman Late did swing ; Blessed Relics for the Pope . IV. Behold , how Strange does Levite look ! Now Champion has the Cause forsook , They'l want their Roger Trusty To Bark against Dissenters loud , May please the Knaves , and cheat the Crowd , With Lies grown stale and musty . V. The Devil too's turn'd Cat i'th Pan , Now Hodge hath serv'd him all he can , What would the Devil have more ? 'Tis pretty sport to see his Sire Thus Lash his Haunches for his Hire , 'Cause he the Mass forswore . VI . But Father Pope is wondrous kind Unto his Bandog , out of wind , See how the Knave does fawn , When Towzer ( Rogue enough ) has been , To merit from the Man of since As well as Sleeves of Lawn . VII . Next take a view of Macks sweet Face , To whom the Tories all give place , And hereby hangs a Tale . He buys a Traitors Service dear , Who runs , and hides his Head for fear , When's Plotting can't prevail . VIII . Now , Pluto , is your time ; put on , And take them all to Acheron . It is your due to have 'um , Secure them on Stigian Shore , That they may trouble us no more , And hang them up that save 'um . Amen . H : 183906 STRANGE'S CASE , STRANGELY ALTERED Or , a HUE and CRY after a Strange old Yorkish Tike full of Black and Blue , Read and Yellow Spots , of a Motley , Dun , Brindled , ill-livered Colour ; neither Mastiff nor Mongrel , Tumbler or Lurcher , Lap-Dog nor Setter , Bull-Dog or Bear-Dog , Wolf-Dog or Sheep-Biter , but all of them : of a Strange Amphibious Nature , lives on Land or on Water , in Court or in Kennel , run away from his Master , about the 26th Instant , seen on Saturday last behind a Coach , between Sam's Coffee-House , and Madam Cellier's , whoever hath ( or shall ) take him up , have a special care of him ( unless you know his ill qualities ) for he has a thousand Dog-Tricks , ( viz. ) to Fetch for the Papists , Carry for the Protestants , Whine to the King , Dance to Noll's Fiddle , Fawn on the Courtier , Leap at their Crusts , wag his Tail at all Bitches , hunt Counter to the Plot , Tonge-Pad the Evidence , and Cringe to the Crucifix ; but above all this , he has one damn'd old trick of slipping the Halter . If there be any that can give notice of this dangerous Cur , to the men in Authority ( who have been several days in Grand Quest after him ) or bring him ( if he be not there already ) to the Sign of the Popes Demi-Culverin , next Door to the Masquerade Committee , in the Street of St. Lord , or to the Tantivy Abhorrers , at the Levitical-Club-House in Ave-Mary-Alley , so that he may be tied up from his Meat , for the Good of the Public ; he will do his Country good Service , the Protestants Right , the Law Justice , the King a Kindness , un - deceive the Church , and himself a mighty Favour in obtaining the Marks-Royal , of a Loyal true Englishman , a Right good Protestant , and a hearty Lover of his King and Country ; all which shall be paid him down ( on the Spot ) for his honest Care and Pains . The Figures above may be thus Explained . I . WAS ever Gallows better set , Where Hangman , Rope and Roger met ? No Fault at all ( save one ) The Cur by chance the Noose did slip , By help of Devil and his Whip , Ill Luck as could have come . II Thus having 'scapt the Fatal Tree In devilish haste , away flies he For Scotland , France or Rome ; No matter which ( for all he strives ) And needs must go , when Devil drives , Together with his BROME . III . The Cur thus scar'd , is skulked from Town , With Cross , and Beads , and Pen in's Crown , About his Neck the Rope , Was Fellow to the self same String In which St. Coleman Late did swing ; Blessed Relics for the Pope . IV. Behold , how Strange does Levite look ! Now Champion has the Cause forsook , They'l want their Roger Trusty To Bark against Dissenters loud , May please the Knaves , and cheat the Crowd , With Lies grown stale and musty . V. The Devil too's turn'd Cat i'th Pan , Now Hodge hath serv'd him all he can , What would the Devil have more ? 'Tis pretty sport to see his Sire Thus Lash his Haunches for his Hire , 'Cause he the Mass forswore . VI . But Father Pope is wondrous kind Unto his Bandog , out of wind , See how the Knave does fawn , When Towzer ( Rogue enough ) has been , To merit from the Man of since As well as Sleeves of Lawn . VII . Next take a view of Macks sweet Face , To whom the Tories all give place , And hereby hangs a Tale . He buys a Traitors Service dear , Who runs , and hides his Head for fear , When's Plotting can't prevail . VIII . Now , Pluto , is your time ; put on , And take them all to Acheron . It is your due to have 'um , Secure them on Stigian Shore , That they may trouble us no more , And hang them up that save 'um . Amen . 