H : 289716 Human Monsters ! ! Account of a Human Monster , at Woodside , near Old Windsor , who makes a common Praictce of EATING LIVE CATS , etc He was Yesterday apprehended and committed to Goal for the MURDER of and INFANT CHILD . Also and account of a similar Monster at Reepham , Norfolk . TO WHICH IS ADDED , The Account of a RAPE committed by Mr. J. of Broad-street St. Gile's . And and account of another Rape committed by a BOY of only Sixteen Years of Age , who is committed to Stafford Goal for Trial. IT must equally be a matter of real surprise and astonishment , that such depraved appetites as the following instances furnishes , can axist in this country ; or indeed that such a monstrous cannibal could disgrace human nature . Many instances of brutality have of late astonished us , and almost exceeded the bounds of credibility ; but the follow - ing instances leave all others far behind them in wickedness . A fellow who has long been resident at Woodside , near Old Windsor , who has been noted for the infamous feat of eating a cat alive , and who been in the censtant habit of the most brutal and beastly practices , has been apprehended and committed to goal , on a charge of murdering and infant six years old . That any man could be found who pos - sessed so much the appetite of a cannibal as to prefer the devouring of cats and other animals alive , to the ordinary food of mankind , is almost beyond belief : and we certainly should give it no manner of credit , was it not attested by and authority we could not dispute . But what renders this monster , if pos - sible , more completely and diabolically wicked , is , that he is charged with having added the worst of all sins , Murder , to the already black catalogue of crimes he has committed . Nay , some do not scru - ple to assert that it was to satisfy his un - natural appetite he committed this most horrid deed . As a proof that the foregoing is not the only wretch of that description now living , we shall just mention the following instance of a similar depravity . --- A fellow at a pub - lic-house at Reepham , in Norfolk , for a trifling wager , actually devoured two live kittens and a whole candle . These men's enormously wicked deeds remind us of the Scottish traditional story of Sandy Bane , who , according to some who assert it on authority , used to devour with the most voracious appetite every thing while panting for life . He conceived the most delicious repast was a human heart taken warm from the body while the blood was issuing from it , and the pulsations of life remained . A man was apprehended in Broad street , St. Gile's , charged with having committed a rape on the body of and infant under nine years of age ; attended with some peculiar circumstances we shall at present forbear to mention . And a few days since , a boy of sixteen years of age , was committed to Stafford goal , on a similar charge , and with a girl of exactly the same age . H : 289716 Human Monsters ! ! Account of a Human Monster , at Woodside , near Old Windsor , who makes a common Praictce of EATING LIVE CATS , etc He was Yesterday apprehended and committed to Goal for the MURDER of and INFANT CHILD . Also and account of a similar Monster at Reepham , Norfolk . TO WHICH IS ADDED , The Account of a RAPE committed by Mr. J. of Broad-street St. Gile's . And and account of another Rape committed by a BOY of only Sixteen Years of Age , who is committed to Stafford Goal for Trial. IT must equally be a matter of real surprise and astonishment , that such depraved appetites as the following instances furnishes , can axist in this country ; or indeed that such a monstrous cannibal could disgrace human nature . Many instances of brutality have of late astonished us , and almost exceeded the bounds of credibility ; but the follow - ing instances leave all others far behind them in wickedness . A fellow who has long been resident at Woodside , near Old Windsor , who has been noted for the infamous feat of eating a cat alive , and who been in the censtant habit of the most brutal and beastly practices , has been apprehended and committed to goal , on a charge of murdering and infant six years old . That any man could be found who pos - sessed so much the appetite of a cannibal as to prefer the devouring of cats and other animals alive , to the ordinary food of mankind , is almost beyond belief : and we certainly should give it no manner of credit , was it not attested by and authority we could not dispute . But what renders this monster , if pos - sible , more completely and diabolically wicked , is , that he is charged with having added the worst of all sins , Murder , to the already black catalogue of crimes he has committed . Nay , some do not scru - ple to assert that it was to satisfy his un - natural appetite he committed this most horrid deed . As a proof that the foregoing is not the only wretch of that description now living , we shall just mention the following instance of a similar depravity . --- A fellow at a pub - lic-house at Reepham , in Norfolk , for a trifling wager , actually devoured two live kittens and a whole candle . These men's enormously wicked deeds remind us of the Scottish traditional story of Sandy Bane , who , according to some who assert it on authority , used to devour with the most voracious appetite every thing while panting for life . He conceived the most delicious repast was a human heart taken warm from the body while the blood was issuing from it , and the pulsations of life remained . A man was apprehended in Broad street , St. Gile's , charged with having committed a rape on the body of and infant under nine years of age ; attended with some peculiar circumstances we shall at present forbear to mention . And a few days since , a boy of sixteen years of age , was committed to Stafford goal , on a similar charge , and with a girl of exactly the same age . 