H : 298906 FUNERAL TEARS Upon the Death OF Captain William Bedloe . SAd Fate ! our valiant Captain Bedloe , In Earth's cold Bed lies with his head low : Who to his last made out the PLOT , And Swearing dy'd upon the Spot . Sure Death was Popishly affected , She had our Witness else protected : Or downright Papist , or the Jade A Papist is in Mascarade . The Valiant Bedloe , Learned Oats , From Popish Knives sav'd all our Throats : By such a Sword , and such a Gown Soon would the Beast have tumbled down . They Conquer like the Hebrew King , And Oaths at Rome's Goliah sling : And never take God's Name in vain ; As many Oaths , so many slave . The stoutest of the Roman Band Could not their thundering Volleys stand ; But all those Missioners of Hell By dint of Affidavit fell . Great things our Hero brought to light ; Yet greater still kept out of sighs And for his King , and Countries sake Still new Discoveries could make : In proper season to relieve , He still kept something in his sleeve ; He was become for England's good , And endless Mine , a wastless flood ; Still prodigal , yet never poor , No spending could exhaust his Store . But Death , alas ! that Popish Fiend , To all our hope's has put and end ; Has stop'd the Course , and dry'd the Spr [ ing ] Which new Plot-tidings still would bring This Witness ( did the Fates so please ) Had sworn us into Happiness ; Made the Court chaste , Religion pure ; And wrought and Universal Cure ; Sworn Westminster into good Order , Reform'd Chief-Justice , and Recorder ? The Land from Romish Locusts purg'd , And from Whitehal the Chits had scourg' [ worser ; ] Had jug'd the great Succession-Case , And sworn the Crown to the right place England ! The mighty loss bemoan ! Thy watchful Sentinel is gone . Now may the Pilgrim's land from Spain , And undiscover'd cross the Main . Now may the Forty Thousand Men In Popish Arms be rais'd again ; Black Bills may fly about our ears ; Who shall secure us from our Fears ? Jesuits may fallen to their old sport Of Burning , Slaying Town and Court , And we never the wiser for't . Then pity us ; Exert thy Power To save us in this dangerous Hour . Thou hast to Death Sworn many men , Ah! Swear thy self to Life again . H : 298906 FUNERAL TEARS Upon the Death OF Captain William Bedloe . SAd Fate ! our valiant Captain Bedloe , In Earth's cold Bed lies with his head low : Who to his last made out the PLOT , And Swearing dy'd upon the Spot . Sure Death was Popishly affected , She had our Witness else protected : Or downright Papist , or the Jade A Papist is in Mascarade . The Valiant Bedloe , Learned Oats , From Popish Knives sav'd all our Throats : By such a Sword , and such a Gown Soon would the Beast have tumbled down . They Conquer like the Hebrew King , And Oaths at Rome's Goliah sling : And never take God's Name in vain ; As many Oaths , so many slave . The stoutest of the Roman Band Could not their thundering Volleys stand ; But all those Missioners of Hell By dint of Affidavit fell . Great things our Hero brought to light ; Yet greater still kept out of sighs And for his King , and Countries sake Still new Discoveries could make : In proper season to relieve , He still kept something in his sleeve ; He was become for England's good , And endless Mine , a wastless flood ; Still prodigal , yet never poor , No spending could exhaust his Store . But Death , alas ! that Popish Fiend , To all our hope's has put and end ; Has stop'd the Course , and dry'd the Spr [ ing ] Which new Plot-tidings still would bring This Witness ( did the Fates so please ) Had sworn us into Happiness ; Made the Court chaste , Religion pure ; And wrought and Universal Cure ; Sworn Westminster into good Order , Reform'd Chief-Justice , and Recorder ? The Land from Romish Locusts purg'd , And from Whitehal the Chits had scourg' [ worser ; ] Had jug'd the great Succession-Case , And sworn the Crown to the right place England ! The mighty loss bemoan ! Thy watchful Sentinel is gone . Now may the Pilgrim's land from Spain , And undiscover'd cross the Main . Now may the Forty Thousand Men In Popish Arms be rais'd again ; Black Bills may fly about our ears ; Who shall secure us from our Fears ? Jesuits may fallen to their old sport Of Burning , Slaying Town and Court , And we never the wiser for't . Then pity us ; Exert thy Power To save us in this dangerous Hour . Thou hast to Death Sworn many men , Ah! Swear thy self to Life again . 