H : 289725 The Wanton Wife of Bath . Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her Soul at last to heaven's gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas , for you , good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave ; I will come in spite , she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , and our pain and misery ; And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to hell . Thou false deceiver , why , said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'd thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou did lie , on them two bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then with such shrill sounding notes ? This , fine minks , you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go . Quoth David , Who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good Sir , she said , unto Uriah's wife : And when thou causedst thy servant in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come her so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomin , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives , for whom thou didst provide , For all this , three hundred whores , thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship flocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to in breeding of young bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured ; And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this . Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of aspen-leaves are made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . Then Marry Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate . Quoth she , Good-woman , you must think upon your former state ; No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then . 'Twere ill for you , fair mistress mild , she answered her again ; You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the earth . It was not your occupation , you are become divine : I hope my soul in Christ's passion shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember Paul , what thou hast done , although a lewd desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he highs , Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone ; I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighs Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , Thou hast refused My proffer'd grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Sure have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep into thy flock again : Oh Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into paradise . My laws and my commandments , says Christ , were known to thee , But of the same , in any wise , nor yet one word did you . grant the same , Oh Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving father did his prodigal son forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , through thy repenting cry ; Come you therefore into my joy , I will not thee deny . London : Printed by T. Norris , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . And sold by J. Walter . H : 289725 The Wanton Wife of Bath . Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her Soul at last to heaven's gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas , for you , good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave ; I will come in spite , she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , and our pain and misery ; And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to hell . Thou false deceiver , why , said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'd thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou did lie , on them two bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then with such shrill sounding notes ? This , fine minks , you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go . Quoth David , Who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good Sir , she said , unto Uriah's wife : And when thou causedst thy servant in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come her so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomin , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives , for whom thou didst provide , For all this , three hundred whores , thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship flocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to in breeding of young bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured ; And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this . Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of aspen-leaves are made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . Then Marry Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate . Quoth she , Good-woman , you must think upon your former state ; No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then . 'Twere ill for you , fair mistress mild , she answered her again ; You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the earth . It was not your occupation , you are become divine : I hope my soul in Christ's passion shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember Paul , what thou hast done , although a lewd desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he highs , Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone ; I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighs Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , Thou hast refused My proffer'd grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Sure have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep into thy flock again : Oh Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into paradise . My laws and my commandments , says Christ , were known to thee , But of the same , in any wise , nor yet one word did you . grant the same , Oh Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving father did his prodigal son forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , through thy repenting cry ; Come you therefore into my joy , I will not thee deny . London : Printed by T. Norris , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . And sold by J. Walter . H : 289725 The Wanton Wife of Bath . Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her Soul at last to heaven's gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas , for you , good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave ; I will come in spite , she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , and our pain and misery ; And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to hell . Thou false deceiver , why , said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'd thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou did lie , on them two bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then with such shrill sounding notes ? This , fine minks , you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go . Quoth David , Who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good Sir , she said , unto Uriah's wife : And when thou causedst thy servant in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come her so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomin , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives , for whom thou didst provide , For all this , three hundred whores , thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship flocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to in breeding of young bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured ; And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this . Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of aspen-leaves are made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . Then Marry Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate . Quoth she , Good-woman , you must think upon your former state ; No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then . 'Twere ill for you , fair mistress mild , she answered her again ; You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the earth . It was not your occupation , you are become divine : I hope my soul in Christ's passion shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember Paul , what thou hast done , although a lewd desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he highs , Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone ; I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighs Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , Thou hast refused My proffer'd grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Sure have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep into thy flock again : Oh Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into paradise . My laws and my commandments , says Christ , were known to thee , But of the same , in any wise , nor yet one word did you . grant the same , Oh Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving father did his prodigal son forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , through thy repenting cry ; Come you therefore into my joy , I will not thee deny . London : Printed by T. Norris , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . And sold by J. Walter . H : 289725 The Wanton Wife of Bath . Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her Soul at last to heaven's gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas , for you , good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave ; I will come in spite , she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , and our pain and misery ; And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to hell . Thou false deceiver , why , said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'd thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou did lie , on them two bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then with such shrill sounding notes ? This , fine minks , you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go . Quoth David , Who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good Sir , she said , unto Uriah's wife : And when thou causedst thy servant in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come her so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomin , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives , for whom thou didst provide , For all this , three hundred whores , thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship flocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to in breeding of young bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured ; And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this . Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of aspen-leaves are made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . Then Marry Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate . Quoth she , Good-woman , you must think upon your former state ; No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then . 'Twere ill for you , fair mistress mild , she answered her again ; You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the earth . It was not your occupation , you are become divine : I hope my soul in Christ's passion shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember Paul , what thou hast done , although a lewd desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he highs , Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone ; I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighs Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , Thou hast refused My proffer'd grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Sure have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep into thy flock again : Oh Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into paradise . My laws and my commandments , says Christ , were known to thee , But of the same , in any wise , nor yet one word did you . grant the same , Oh Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving father did his prodigal son forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , through thy repenting cry ; Come you therefore into my joy , I will not thee deny . London : Printed by T. Norris , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . And sold by J. Walter . 