H : 289736 THE GENTLE CRAFT's COMPLAIN OR , The Jolly SHOE-MAKERS humble Petition to the Queen and Parliament ; with their great Hope's of the Advance - ment of each Leather Trade . Tune of , Now , now comes on the glorious Year . Crispin . Crispianus . THE jolly Shoemakers , 'tis said , Hath found a great Decay of Trade , And lately have been soar dismay'd , And in a dismal Taking . Because the Leather was grown dear , And carried over Sea , we hear ; But Gentle Craftsmen never fear , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . It is a noble ancient Trade , No Man on Earth can it degrade , And must the Craft now be decay'd , No , no , be not mistaken . Crispin and Crispianus too , The Town of Feversham well knew , And likewise noble good St. Hugh , Were all of them Shoemakers . This Craft was never held in Scorn , Sir Thomas Eyer did it adorn , A Shoemaker's Son a Prince is born ; But now they've undertaken , To send their Grievance to our Queen , In Hope's a Drawback to obtain , And the Parliament their Case hath seen . They'll still be brisk Shoemakers . This is the Substance of their State , Much unwrought Leather was of late , Sent over , and the Taxes great , Made jolly Hearts to ache , Sir . To think their Trade should so decay , For many out of Business lay , Each Prentice had no Heart to stay , That will be brisk Shoemakers . The Parliament hath herd their Grief , And quickly will extend Relief , For Thousands of the very Chief Of them hath undertaken , In this great Actium to proceed , And there's no Doubt but will succeed , And by our Senate be decreed , To make them brisk Shoemakers . All others that in Leather deal , The Comfort too will also feel , What those Trades are we shall reveal , Glovers and Harness-makers . Coach-makers , Tanners , Skinners too , Translators Joys it will renew , Then toss off Healths , Boys , since 'tis true , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . The Bookbinders does Leather use , And Boys for Satchels does it choose , As well as he that mendeth Shoes , So does the Breeches-maker . The Bellows-maker too beside , He is oblig'd to use Bull's Hides , Then Craftsmen lay all Cares aside , You'll soon be brisk Shoemakers . It was your brave Boys by free Consent , That humbly in full Body went , Unto our noble Parliament , As you had undertaken . As a just Reward for all to see , This Nation will recorded be , Then toss full Bumbers , let them flee , To the Honour of Shoemakers . Our noble Parliament you'll find , To English Tradesmen will prove kind , And ever will your Interest mind , Just now 'tis undertaken . They have consider'd your Address , Our noble Peers could do no less , While all the World must still confess You're honest brisk Shoemakers . No longer need you sighs and pine , But toss to Anna Flasks of Wine , The noble Craft will clearly shine , No Damp will overtake them . Then let a general Joy abound , In ev'ry incorporated Town , And great August's Joys be crown'd , To honour her Shoemakers . Each Journeyman and 'Prentice too , And Master's , without more ado , May wear the Bones of great St. Hugh , For Work will ne'er forsake them . The Case will soon be alter'd quite , Each in his Labour may delight , Then toss a Jug or two each Night , For the Honour of Shoemakers . Then jolly gentle Craftsmen all , Be merry , whatsoe'er befall , There will for you be a great Call , You are not yet forsaken . Then hollow , Boys , with a loud Huzza , And for our gracious Sovereign pray , You'll have Redress without Delay , And still be brisk Shoemakers . Then let the Pitcher walk amain , And drink their Healths up o'er again , Who your Complaints did not disdain , When you thought you were forsaken . 'Tis our good Parliament I mean , And Royal Anne our noble Queen , Who England's Friends have ever been , Now proves the brave Shoemakers . Then let all Sorrows have and End , And God is Blessings down will send , And eke this noble Craft defend , And never will forsake them . But Trade and Business will increase , Let Fears of wanting now quite cease , May nought but Health and Wealth and Peace , Attend the brave Shoemakers . Then to conclude , once more rejoice , Sing Crispin's Fame in Heart and Voice , Throw up your Hats with Huzza , Boys , Great Joys you are partaking . Which will to you be now restor'd , Then toss the Bumber o'er and o'er , Remember these dull Times no more , You still are brave Shoemakers . H : 289736 THE GENTLE CRAFT's COMPLAIN OR , The Jolly SHOE-MAKERS humble Petition to the Queen and Parliament ; with their great Hope's of the Advance - ment of each Leather Trade . Tune of , Now , now comes on the glorious Year . Crispin . Crispianus . THE jolly Shoemakers , 'tis said , Hath found a great Decay of Trade , And lately have been soar dismay'd , And in a dismal Taking . Because the Leather was grown dear , And carried over Sea , we hear ; But Gentle Craftsmen never fear , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . It is a noble ancient Trade , No Man on Earth can it degrade , And must the Craft now be decay'd , No , no , be not mistaken . Crispin and Crispianus too , The Town of Feversham well knew , And likewise noble good St. Hugh , Were all of them Shoemakers . This Craft was never held in Scorn , Sir Thomas Eyer did it adorn , A Shoemaker's Son a Prince is born ; But now they've undertaken , To send their Grievance to our Queen , In Hope's a Drawback to obtain , And the Parliament their Case hath seen . They'll still be brisk Shoemakers . This is the Substance of their State , Much unwrought Leather was of late , Sent over , and the Taxes great , Made jolly Hearts to ache , Sir . To think their Trade should so decay , For many out of Business lay , Each Prentice had no Heart to stay , That will be brisk Shoemakers . The Parliament hath herd their Grief , And quickly will extend Relief , For Thousands of the very Chief Of them hath undertaken , In this great Actium to proceed , And there's no Doubt but will succeed , And by our Senate be decreed , To make them brisk Shoemakers . All others that in Leather deal , The Comfort too will also feel , What those Trades are we shall reveal , Glovers and Harness-makers . Coach-makers , Tanners , Skinners too , Translators Joys it will renew , Then toss off Healths , Boys , since 'tis true , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . The Bookbinders does Leather use , And Boys for Satchels does it choose , As well as he that mendeth Shoes , So does the Breeches-maker . The Bellows-maker too beside , He is oblig'd to use Bull's Hides , Then Craftsmen lay all Cares aside , You'll soon be brisk Shoemakers . It was your brave Boys by free Consent , That humbly in full Body went , Unto our noble Parliament , As you had undertaken . As a just Reward for all to see , This Nation will recorded be , Then toss full Bumbers , let them flee , To the Honour of Shoemakers . Our noble Parliament you'll find , To English Tradesmen will prove kind , And ever will your Interest mind , Just now 'tis undertaken . They have consider'd your Address , Our noble Peers could do no less , While all the World must still confess You're honest brisk Shoemakers . No longer need you sighs and pine , But toss to Anna Flasks of Wine , The noble Craft will clearly shine , No Damp will overtake them . Then let a general Joy abound , In ev'ry incorporated Town , And great August's Joys be crown'd , To honour her Shoemakers . Each Journeyman and 'Prentice too , And Master's , without more ado , May wear the Bones of great St. Hugh , For Work will ne'er forsake them . The Case will soon be alter'd quite , Each in his Labour may delight , Then toss a Jug or two each Night , For the Honour of Shoemakers . Then jolly gentle Craftsmen all , Be merry , whatsoe'er befall , There will for you be a great Call , You are not yet forsaken . Then hollow , Boys , with a loud Huzza , And for our gracious Sovereign pray , You'll have Redress without Delay , And still be brisk Shoemakers . Then let the Pitcher walk amain , And drink their Healths up o'er again , Who your Complaints did not disdain , When you thought you were forsaken . 'Tis our good Parliament I mean , And Royal Anne our noble Queen , Who England's Friends have ever been , Now proves the brave Shoemakers . Then let all Sorrows have and End , And God is Blessings down will send , And eke this noble Craft defend , And never will forsake them . But Trade and Business will increase , Let Fears of wanting now quite cease , May nought but Health and Wealth and Peace , Attend the brave Shoemakers . Then to conclude , once more rejoice , Sing Crispin's Fame in Heart and Voice , Throw up your Hats with Huzza , Boys , Great Joys you are partaking . Which will to you be now restor'd , Then toss the Bumber o'er and o'er , Remember these dull Times no more , You still are brave Shoemakers . H : 289736 THE GENTLE CRAFT's COMPLAIN OR , The Jolly SHOE-MAKERS humble Petition to the Queen and Parliament ; with their great Hope's of the Advance - ment of each Leather Trade . Tune of , Now , now comes on the glorious Year . Crispin . Crispianus . THE jolly Shoemakers , 'tis said , Hath found a great Decay of Trade , And lately have been soar dismay'd , And in a dismal Taking . Because the Leather was grown dear , And carried over Sea , we hear ; But Gentle Craftsmen never fear , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . It is a noble ancient Trade , No Man on Earth can it degrade , And must the Craft now be decay'd , No , no , be not mistaken . Crispin and Crispianus too , The Town of Feversham well knew , And likewise noble good St. Hugh , Were all of them Shoemakers . This Craft was never held in Scorn , Sir Thomas Eyer did it adorn , A Shoemaker's Son a Prince is born ; But now they've undertaken , To send their Grievance to our Queen , In Hope's a Drawback to obtain , And the Parliament their Case hath seen . They'll still be brisk Shoemakers . This is the Substance of their State , Much unwrought Leather was of late , Sent over , and the Taxes great , Made jolly Hearts to ache , Sir . To think their Trade should so decay , For many out of Business lay , Each Prentice had no Heart to stay , That will be brisk Shoemakers . The Parliament hath herd their Grief , And quickly will extend Relief , For Thousands of the very Chief Of them hath undertaken , In this great Actium to proceed , And there's no Doubt but will succeed , And by our Senate be decreed , To make them brisk Shoemakers . All others that in Leather deal , The Comfort too will also feel , What those Trades are we shall reveal , Glovers and Harness-makers . Coach-makers , Tanners , Skinners too , Translators Joys it will renew , Then toss off Healths , Boys , since 'tis true , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . The Bookbinders does Leather use , And Boys for Satchels does it choose , As well as he that mendeth Shoes , So does the Breeches-maker . The Bellows-maker too beside , He is oblig'd to use Bull's Hides , Then Craftsmen lay all Cares aside , You'll soon be brisk Shoemakers . It was your brave Boys by free Consent , That humbly in full Body went , Unto our noble Parliament , As you had undertaken . As a just Reward for all to see , This Nation will recorded be , Then toss full Bumbers , let them flee , To the Honour of Shoemakers . Our noble Parliament you'll find , To English Tradesmen will prove kind , And ever will your Interest mind , Just now 'tis undertaken . They have consider'd your Address , Our noble Peers could do no less , While all the World must still confess You're honest brisk Shoemakers . No longer need you sighs and pine , But toss to Anna Flasks of Wine , The noble Craft will clearly shine , No Damp will overtake them . Then let a general Joy abound , In ev'ry incorporated Town , And great August's Joys be crown'd , To honour her Shoemakers . Each Journeyman and 'Prentice too , And Master's , without more ado , May wear the Bones of great St. Hugh , For Work will ne'er forsake them . The Case will soon be alter'd quite , Each in his Labour may delight , Then toss a Jug or two each Night , For the Honour of Shoemakers . Then jolly gentle Craftsmen all , Be merry , whatsoe'er befall , There will for you be a great Call , You are not yet forsaken . Then hollow , Boys , with a loud Huzza , And for our gracious Sovereign pray , You'll have Redress without Delay , And still be brisk Shoemakers . Then let the Pitcher walk amain , And drink their Healths up o'er again , Who your Complaints did not disdain , When you thought you were forsaken . 'Tis our good Parliament I mean , And Royal Anne our noble Queen , Who England's Friends have ever been , Now proves the brave Shoemakers . Then let all Sorrows have and End , And God is Blessings down will send , And eke this noble Craft defend , And never will forsake them . But Trade and Business will increase , Let Fears of wanting now quite cease , May nought but Health and Wealth and Peace , Attend the brave Shoemakers . Then to conclude , once more rejoice , Sing Crispin's Fame in Heart and Voice , Throw up your Hats with Huzza , Boys , Great Joys you are partaking . Which will to you be now restor'd , Then toss the Bumber o'er and o'er , Remember these dull Times no more , You still are brave Shoemakers . H : 289736 THE GENTLE CRAFT's COMPLAIN OR , The Jolly SHOE-MAKERS humble Petition to the Queen and Parliament ; with their great Hope's of the Advance - ment of each Leather Trade . Tune of , Now , now comes on the glorious Year . Crispin . Crispianus . THE jolly Shoemakers , 'tis said , Hath found a great Decay of Trade , And lately have been soar dismay'd , And in a dismal Taking . Because the Leather was grown dear , And carried over Sea , we hear ; But Gentle Craftsmen never fear , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . It is a noble ancient Trade , No Man on Earth can it degrade , And must the Craft now be decay'd , No , no , be not mistaken . Crispin and Crispianus too , The Town of Feversham well knew , And likewise noble good St. Hugh , Were all of them Shoemakers . This Craft was never held in Scorn , Sir Thomas Eyer did it adorn , A Shoemaker's Son a Prince is born ; But now they've undertaken , To send their Grievance to our Queen , In Hope's a Drawback to obtain , And the Parliament their Case hath seen . They'll still be brisk Shoemakers . This is the Substance of their State , Much unwrought Leather was of late , Sent over , and the Taxes great , Made jolly Hearts to ache , Sir . To think their Trade should so decay , For many out of Business lay , Each Prentice had no Heart to stay , That will be brisk Shoemakers . The Parliament hath herd their Grief , And quickly will extend Relief , For Thousands of the very Chief Of them hath undertaken , In this great Actium to proceed , And there's no Doubt but will succeed , And by our Senate be decreed , To make them brisk Shoemakers . All others that in Leather deal , The Comfort too will also feel , What those Trades are we shall reveal , Glovers and Harness-makers . Coach-makers , Tanners , Skinners too , Translators Joys it will renew , Then toss off Healths , Boys , since 'tis true , You'll still be brisk Shoemakers . The Bookbinders does Leather use , And Boys for Satchels does it choose , As well as he that mendeth Shoes , So does the Breeches-maker . The Bellows-maker too beside , He is oblig'd to use Bull's Hides , Then Craftsmen lay all Cares aside , You'll soon be brisk Shoemakers . It was your brave Boys by free Consent , That humbly in full Body went , Unto our noble Parliament , As you had undertaken . As a just Reward for all to see , This Nation will recorded be , Then toss full Bumbers , let them flee , To the Honour of Shoemakers . Our noble Parliament you'll find , To English Tradesmen will prove kind , And ever will your Interest mind , Just now 'tis undertaken . They have consider'd your Address , Our noble Peers could do no less , While all the World must still confess You're honest brisk Shoemakers . No longer need you sighs and pine , But toss to Anna Flasks of Wine , The noble Craft will clearly shine , No Damp will overtake them . Then let a general Joy abound , In ev'ry incorporated Town , And great August's Joys be crown'd , To honour her Shoemakers . Each Journeyman and 'Prentice too , And Master's , without more ado , May wear the Bones of great St. Hugh , For Work will ne'er forsake them . The Case will soon be alter'd quite , Each in his Labour may delight , Then toss a Jug or two each Night , For the Honour of Shoemakers . Then jolly gentle Craftsmen all , Be merry , whatsoe'er befall , There will for you be a great Call , You are not yet forsaken . Then hollow , Boys , with a loud Huzza , And for our gracious Sovereign pray , You'll have Redress without Delay , And still be brisk Shoemakers . Then let the Pitcher walk amain , And drink their Healths up o'er again , Who your Complaints did not disdain , When you thought you were forsaken . 'Tis our good Parliament I mean , And Royal Anne our noble Queen , Who England's Friends have ever been , Now proves the brave Shoemakers . Then let all Sorrows have and End , And God is Blessings down will send , And eke this noble Craft defend , And never will forsake them . But Trade and Business will increase , Let Fears of wanting now quite cease , May nought but Health and Wealth and Peace , Attend the brave Shoemakers . Then to conclude , once more rejoice , Sing Crispin's Fame in Heart and Voice , Throw up your Hats with Huzza , Boys , Great Joys you are partaking . Which will to you be now restor'd , Then toss the Bumber o'er and o'er , Remember these dull Times no more , You still are brave Shoemakers . 