H : 289735 And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITEH : 289735 And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITEH : 402424 The Second Part to the same Tune ; OR , And Answer to the Lady of Qualities POPISH BALLAD of the POPISH PLOT . Like you my Song , or like it not , I sing the Downfall of the PLOT ; The PLOTTERS Characters I show , The Devil by his Paw you'l know . God bless our KING , our CHURCH Preserve , While TRAYTORS have what they deserve . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND . 1. SInce Hell is broke lose , and the Press set a work , By Jesuit , by Jew , by Christian , and Turk ; By Fools , and by Fops , by Rascals , and Knaves , By Counterfeit Ladies , and by Scribbling Slaves : Each Mome , and each Sot , Now talks of the Plot , Some cry it is true , and some swear it is no New Fireballs in Pamphlets and Ballads are hurl'd , To cajole the People , and amuse the World . 2. And among all the rest , there starts up for one , A Priest under Petticoats , Jesuit Joan ; Who in a lewd Ballad , does sing a loud Lie , And to o'erthrow the Plot by fooling would try : And though very bold The Plotters she told , The trick is too stale , the design is too old ; For no honest man in whom Reason does dwell , But scents the Popes breath , and the foul stink of Hell . 3. The people deceiv'd by Jesuitical Glasses , No longer now will be ridden like Asses ; They won't be deceiv'd , by their old foolish Lies , But the Plot , and the Plotters , see with their own Eyes : For it is too plain , For all their false Train , The Plot was first hatch'd in a Jesuitical Brain : And you shall without Romish Spectacles see , Who both the Contrivers , and Actors still be . 4. A Politic Statesman that does all confound , Who the Head of all true Religion does wound ; Who was the first Rebel , that e're did rebel , And who still advances all Traitors in Hell : The Father of Evil , And nam DONE Devil , A very Fanatic , though he can seem Civil , Of this wicked Plot first laid the close Train , And the Cockatrice hatch'd in a Jesuits Brain . 5. The Politic Statesman in Council did fit , With Legions , to find out some Instruments fit ; And picking and choosing , he form'd a whole Rabble , Who stink at St. Omers like Goats in a Stable : Their Fortune's were low , The Devil did know , The bore of Preferment he therefore did show : He adopted these Tools , to give the Train fire , For which some receiv'd a Rope for their hire . 6. The next he prepar'd was a proud prating Knave , Who long ply'd the Court , to Great ones a Slave ; He fed with great Hope's , kept up a great Table , For Money from France , did make the Knave able : He went and he ran , Did many Trepan , And for the Popes sake , a whole Nation did ban : He lost his Reward if he gaped for Uburn , For he with and Halter was Sainted at Tyburn . 7. Like Rat in a Chamber another he found , Who had from the Father's god many a pound ; This Picklock of Law , to be the Book drudge , Was made , with great hope's , at last to be Judge : He loved Applause , Perverted the Laws , And filled with Zeal he grew stout for the Cause : Lest Drawing and Hanging should not make him Martyr , He lash'd his own Back like a terrible Carter . 8. The next were five bloody and murderous Fellows , Who tempted by Money , made haste to the Gallows ; By whose cruel hands a brave Hero did fallen , Sufficiently prov'd , though deny'd by them all : Give the Devil his endue , The Treasurer too , He has Sins of his own , and needs none from you : The Knight being slave , fled the Men of the Church , And left the poor Laymen to hang in the lurch . 9. The next a grave Gown-man in terrible from , Who with a strong breath , does blow up this Storm ; He thunders , he tears , he rants , and he roars , To turn all Heretical Kings out of doors : He makes a great rout , And hunt's all about , To turn all Religion and Sanctity out ; Both Bishop and Presbyter he'l turn to Grass , To bring in his Idols , and set up the Mass. 10. Thus both the Contrivers , and Actors you see , They are not mere shadows , but really be ; But 'twas their ill Fortune , and our good Lot , Or rather Gods Mercy confounded their Plo Whate're Ladies sing , They Murther'd one King , And now to Confusion another would bring : God bless our good King , and long may he Reign , And Jesuits be Hanged if they Plot again . FINIS . H : 402424 The Second Part to the same Tune ; OR , And Answer to the Lady of Qualities POPISH BALLAD of the POPISH PLOT . Like you my Song , or like it not , I sing the Downfall of the PLOT ; The PLOTTERS Characters I show , The Devil by his Paw you'l know . God bless our KING , our CHURCH Preserve , While TRAYTORS have what they deserve . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND . 1. SInce Hell is broke lose , and the Press set a work , By Jesuit , by Jew , by Christian , and Turk ; By Fools , and by Fops , by Rascals , and Knaves , By Counterfeit Ladies , and by Scribbling Slaves : Each Mome , and each Sot , Now talks of the Plot , Some cry it is true , and some swear it is no New Fireballs in Pamphlets and Ballads are hurl'd , To cajole the People , and amuse the World . 2. And among all the rest , there starts up for one , A Priest under Petticoats , Jesuit Joan ; Who in a lewd Ballad , does sing a loud Lie , And to o'erthrow the Plot by fooling would try : And though very bold The Plotters she told , The trick is too stale , the design is too old ; For no honest man in whom Reason does dwell , But scents the Popes breath , and the foul stink of Hell . 3. The people deceiv'd by Jesuitical Glasses , No longer now will be ridden like Asses ; They won't be deceiv'd , by their old foolish Lies , But the Plot , and the Plotters , see with their own Eyes : For it is too plain , For all their false Train , The Plot was first hatch'd in a Jesuitical Brain : And you shall without Romish Spectacles see , Who both the Contrivers , and Actors still be . 4. A Politic Statesman that does all confound , Who the Head of all true Religion does wound ; Who was the first Rebel , that e're did rebel , And who still advances all Traitors in Hell : The Father of Evil , And nam DONE Devil , A very Fanatic , though he can seem Civil , Of this wicked Plot first laid the close Train , And the Cockatrice hatch'd in a Jesuits Brain . 5. The Politic Statesman in Council did fit , With Legions , to find out some Instruments fit ; And picking and choosing , he form'd a whole Rabble , Who stink at St. Omers like Goats in a Stable : Their Fortune's were low , The Devil did know , The bore of Preferment he therefore did show : He adopted these Tools , to give the Train fire , For which some receiv'd a Rope for their hire . 6. The next he prepar'd was a proud prating Knave , Who long ply'd the Court , to Great ones a Slave ; He fed with great Hope's , kept up a great Table , For Money from France , did make the Knave able : He went and he ran , Did many Trepan , And for the Popes sake , a whole Nation did ban : He lost his Reward if he gaped for Uburn , For he with and Halter was Sainted at Tyburn . 7. Like Rat in a Chamber another he found , Who had from the Father's god many a pound ; This Picklock of Law , to be the Book drudge , Was made , with great hope's , at last to be Judge : He loved Applause , Perverted the Laws , And filled with Zeal he grew stout for the Cause : Lest Drawing and Hanging should not make him Martyr , He lash'd his own Back like a terrible Carter . 8. The next were five bloody and murderous Fellows , Who tempted by Money , made haste to the Gallows ; By whose cruel hands a brave Hero did fallen , Sufficiently prov'd , though deny'd by them all : Give the Devil his endue , The Treasurer too , He has Sins of his own , and needs none from you : The Knight being slave , fled the Men of the Church , And left the poor Laymen to hang in the lurch . 9. The next a grave Gown-man in terrible from , Who with a strong breath , does blow up this Storm ; He thunders , he tears , he rants , and he roars , To turn all Heretical Kings out of doors : He makes a great rout , And hunt's all about , To turn all Religion and Sanctity out ; Both Bishop and Presbyter he'l turn to Grass , To bring in his Idols , and set up the Mass. 10. Thus both the Contrivers , and Actors you see , They are not mere shadows , but really be ; But 'twas their ill Fortune , and our good Lot , Or rather Gods Mercy confounded their Plo Whate're Ladies sing , They Murther'd one King , And now to Confusion another would bring : God bless our good King , and long may he Reign , And Jesuits be Hanged if they Plot again . FINIS . H : 289735 And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITEH : 289735 And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITEH : 289735 And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITEH : 289735 And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE 