H : 289734 The NORFOLK GENTLEMAN's Last Will and Testa [ m ] en WHO , On his Death Bed , committed the keeping of his two CHILDREN , ( a Boy and a Girl ) to his Own BROTHER , who did most wickedly cause them to be destroyed , that so he might possess himself of the Children's Estate , but by the just Judgement of God , the Murder was found out , himself , and all that he had were destroyed from off the Face of the Earth . NOW ponder well you parents dear , Those words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , In Norfolk dwelled of late ; Whose wealth and riches did surmount Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possess'd one grave : No love between them two was lost , Each was to other kind : In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old . The other a girl more young than he , And made in beauty's mould ; The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age did come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Five hundred pounds in gold , To be paid down on the marriage day , Which might not be controul'd ; But if the children chanc'd to die , E'er they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , For so the will did run . Now brother , said the dying man , Look on my children dear , Be good unto my boy and girl , No friends else have I here ; To God and you I do commend , My children night and day , But little while surely we have , Within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And uncle all in one , Who knows what will become of them , When I am dead and gone ; With that bespoke the mother dear , O! Brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring my Babes To wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; If otherwise you seem to deal , He will your deeds regard ; With lips as cold as any stone , She kiss'd the children small : God bless you both my children dear , With that the tears did fallen These speeches then their brother spoke , To this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you're laid in the grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , Their children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , And much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty Babes , A twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , To make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , Who were of furious mood , That they should take the children young , And slay them in a Wood , He told his wife and all he had , He would the children send , To be brought up in fair London , With one that was his friend , Away went these two pretty Babes , Rejoicing at that ride , And laughing with a merry mind , They should on Cock Horse ride , They talk'd and prattled pleasantly , As they were on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , Made their murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , Full soar did it repent ; Yet one of them more hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto So here they fell to strife . With one another they did fight , About the Children's life , And he that was of milder mood , Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , The Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hands , While tears stood in their eyes , And bid them come and go with him , And look they did not cry , And two long miles he led them thus , Till they for bred complain'd , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , When I do come again . These pretty babes , with hand in hand , Went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , Approaching from the town , Their pretty Lips with Blackberries , Were all besmear'd and dy'd And when they saw the darksome night , They sat them down and cry'd Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , 'Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , Like babes wanting relief , No burial these pretty babes , Of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breast painfully , Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell , Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt and hell , His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd His lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought , Unto much misery , He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , E'er seven years came out , And now at length this wicked act , Did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , These children for to kill , Was for a robbery judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , The whole as here express'd , Their Uncle dy'd , while he for debt , Did long in prison rest . All you that are Executors made . And Overseers eke , Of Children that are fatherless , And Infants mild and meek , Take now example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , Your wicked deeds requite . Newcastle , Printed in this present Year . H : 289734 The NORFOLK GENTLEMAN's Last Will and Testa [ m ] en WHO , On his Death Bed , committed the keeping of his two CHILDREN , ( a Boy and a Girl ) to his Own BROTHER , who did most wickedly cause them to be destroyed , that so he might possess himself of the Children's Estate , but by the just Judgement of God , the Murder was found out , himself , and all that he had were destroyed from off the Face of the Earth . NOW ponder well you parents dear , Those words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , In Norfolk dwelled of late ; Whose wealth and riches did surmount Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possess'd one grave : No love between them two was lost , Each was to other kind : In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old . The other a girl more young than he , And made in beauty's mould ; The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age did come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Five hundred pounds in gold , To be paid down on the marriage day , Which might not be controul'd ; But if the children chanc'd to die , E'er they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , For so the will did run . Now brother , said the dying man , Look on my children dear , Be good unto my boy and girl , No friends else have I here ; To God and you I do commend , My children night and day , But little while surely we have , Within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And uncle all in one , Who knows what will become of them , When I am dead and gone ; With that bespoke the mother dear , O! Brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring my Babes To wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; If otherwise you seem to deal , He will your deeds regard ; With lips as cold as any stone , She kiss'd the children small : God bless you both my children dear , With that the tears did fallen These speeches then their brother spoke , To this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you're laid in the grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , Their children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , And much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty Babes , A twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , To make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , Who were of furious mood , That they should take the children young , And slay them in a Wood , He told his wife and all he had , He would the children send , To be brought up in fair London , With one that was his friend , Away went these two pretty Babes , Rejoicing at that ride , And laughing with a merry mind , They should on Cock Horse ride , They talk'd and prattled pleasantly , As they were on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , Made their murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , Full soar did it repent ; Yet one of them more hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto So here they fell to strife . With one another they did fight , About the Children's life , And he that was of milder mood , Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , The Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hands , While tears stood in their eyes , And bid them come and go with him , And look they did not cry , And two long miles he led them thus , Till they for bred complain'd , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , When I do come again . These pretty babes , with hand in hand , Went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , Approaching from the town , Their pretty Lips with Blackberries , Were all besmear'd and dy'd And when they saw the darksome night , They sat them down and cry'd Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , 'Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , Like babes wanting relief , No burial these pretty babes , Of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breast painfully , Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell , Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt and hell , His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd His lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought , Unto much misery , He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , E'er seven years came out , And now at length this wicked act , Did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , These children for to kill , Was for a robbery judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , The whole as here express'd , Their Uncle dy'd , while he for debt , Did long in prison rest . All you that are Executors made . And Overseers eke , Of Children that are fatherless , And Infants mild and meek , Take now example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , Your wicked deeds requite . Newcastle , Printed in this present Year . H : 289734 The NORFOLK GENTLEMAN's Last Will and Testa [ m ] en WHO , On his Death Bed , committed the keeping of his two CHILDREN , ( a Boy and a Girl ) to his Own BROTHER , who did most wickedly cause them to be destroyed , that so he might possess himself of the Children's Estate , but by the just Judgement of God , the Murder was found out , himself , and all that he had were destroyed from off the Face of the Earth . NOW ponder well you parents dear , Those words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , In Norfolk dwelled of late ; Whose wealth and riches did surmount Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possess'd one grave : No love between them two was lost , Each was to other kind : In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old . The other a girl more young than he , And made in beauty's mould ; The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age did come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Five hundred pounds in gold , To be paid down on the marriage day , Which might not be controul'd ; But if the children chanc'd to die , E'er they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , For so the will did run . Now brother , said the dying man , Look on my children dear , Be good unto my boy and girl , No friends else have I here ; To God and you I do commend , My children night and day , But little while surely we have , Within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And uncle all in one , Who knows what will become of them , When I am dead and gone ; With that bespoke the mother dear , O! Brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring my Babes To wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; If otherwise you seem to deal , He will your deeds regard ; With lips as cold as any stone , She kiss'd the children small : God bless you both my children dear , With that the tears did fallen These speeches then their brother spoke , To this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you're laid in the grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , Their children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , And much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty Babes , A twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , To make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , Who were of furious mood , That they should take the children young , And slay them in a Wood , He told his wife and all he had , He would the children send , To be brought up in fair London , With one that was his friend , Away went these two pretty Babes , Rejoicing at that ride , And laughing with a merry mind , They should on Cock Horse ride , They talk'd and prattled pleasantly , As they were on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , Made their murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , Full soar did it repent ; Yet one of them more hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto So here they fell to strife . With one another they did fight , About the Children's life , And he that was of milder mood , Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , The Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hands , While tears stood in their eyes , And bid them come and go with him , And look they did not cry , And two long miles he led them thus , Till they for bred complain'd , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , When I do come again . These pretty babes , with hand in hand , Went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , Approaching from the town , Their pretty Lips with Blackberries , Were all besmear'd and dy'd And when they saw the darksome night , They sat them down and cry'd Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , 'Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , Like babes wanting relief , No burial these pretty babes , Of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breast painfully , Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell , Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt and hell , His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd His lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought , Unto much misery , He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , E'er seven years came out , And now at length this wicked act , Did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , These children for to kill , Was for a robbery judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , The whole as here express'd , Their Uncle dy'd , while he for debt , Did long in prison rest . All you that are Executors made . And Overseers eke , Of Children that are fatherless , And Infants mild and meek , Take now example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , Your wicked deeds requite . Newcastle , Printed in this present Year . H : 289734 The NORFOLK GENTLEMAN's Last Will and Testa [ m ] en WHO , On his Death Bed , committed the keeping of his two CHILDREN , ( a Boy and a Girl ) to his Own BROTHER , who did most wickedly cause them to be destroyed , that so he might possess himself of the Children's Estate , but by the just Judgement of God , the Murder was found out , himself , and all that he had were destroyed from off the Face of the Earth . NOW ponder well you parents dear , Those words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , In Norfolk dwelled of late ; Whose wealth and riches did surmount Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possess'd one grave : No love between them two was lost , Each was to other kind : In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old . The other a girl more young than he , And made in beauty's mould ; The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age did come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Five hundred pounds in gold , To be paid down on the marriage day , Which might not be controul'd ; But if the children chanc'd to die , E'er they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , For so the will did run . Now brother , said the dying man , Look on my children dear , Be good unto my boy and girl , No friends else have I here ; To God and you I do commend , My children night and day , But little while surely we have , Within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And uncle all in one , Who knows what will become of them , When I am dead and gone ; With that bespoke the mother dear , O! Brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring my Babes To wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; If otherwise you seem to deal , He will your deeds regard ; With lips as cold as any stone , She kiss'd the children small : God bless you both my children dear , With that the tears did fallen These speeches then their brother spoke , To this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you're laid in the grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , Their children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , And much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty Babes , A twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , To make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , Who were of furious mood , That they should take the children young , And slay them in a Wood , He told his wife and all he had , He would the children send , To be brought up in fair London , With one that was his friend , Away went these two pretty Babes , Rejoicing at that ride , And laughing with a merry mind , They should on Cock Horse ride , They talk'd and prattled pleasantly , As they were on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , Made their murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , Full soar did it repent ; Yet one of them more hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto So here they fell to strife . With one another they did fight , About the Children's life , And he that was of milder mood , Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , The Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hands , While tears stood in their eyes , And bid them come and go with him , And look they did not cry , And two long miles he led them thus , Till they for bred complain'd , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , When I do come again . These pretty babes , with hand in hand , Went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , Approaching from the town , Their pretty Lips with Blackberries , Were all besmear'd and dy'd And when they saw the darksome night , They sat them down and cry'd Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , 'Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , Like babes wanting relief , No burial these pretty babes , Of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breast painfully , Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell , Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt and hell , His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd His lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought , Unto much misery , He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , E'er seven years came out , And now at length this wicked act , Did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , These children for to kill , Was for a robbery judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , The whole as here express'd , Their Uncle dy'd , while he for debt , Did long in prison rest . All you that are Executors made . And Overseers eke , Of Children that are fatherless , And Infants mild and meek , Take now example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , Your wicked deeds requite . Newcastle , Printed in this present Year . 