H : 289739 THE Woody Choristers : OR , The BIRDS of HARMONY . In TWO PARTS When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with Pain , Did to each other thus Complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers Delight , etc O ! says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young Ones feed , And I myself do stand in Need. Then says the Sparrow on her Nest , I lov'd a Lass , but it was in Jest ; And ever since that self same Thing , I made a Vow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin , and thus he said , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Maid ; Her Be [ a ] uty kindled such a Spark , That on her B [ r ] east I bear the Mark . Then said the Lark upon the Grass , I lov'd once a Country Las ; She would not hear her true Love sing , Although his Voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I lov'd one , but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I lack , This is the Cause I mourn in Black . Oh! said the bonny Nightingale , Then must I end my mournful Tale ; While others sing I fit and mourn , Leaning my Breast against a Thorn . O says the Water-wagtail then , I ne'er shall be my self again ; I lov'd one but could not prevail , This is the Cause I wag my Tail . Then said the party-colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is fled away ; And Remembrance of my Dear , A Feather of ev'ry Sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my Tail , and I'll tell you what Is the Cause that I fly by Night , Because I lost my Heart's Delight . Then said the Greenfinch , as she flew , I lov'd one that prov'd untrue , And sicne she can no more be seen , Like a Lovesick Maid I turn to Green . Then did the chatterring Swallow , My Love she's fled , but I would not follow , And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor Melody . Oh! says the Owl , my Love is gone , That I so much did dote upon ; I know not how my Love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies ; But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly Pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no Comfort bring ; For oftentimes I at Midnight Record my Love and Heart's Delight . The Canary Bird she then came in , To tell her Tale she did begin ; I am of my dear Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Goldfinch then began to speak , For Love , quoth she , my Heart will break , I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two Months in the Year . Then quoth the Magpie , I was cross'd In Love and now my Dear is lost ; And wanting of my Heart's Delight , I mourn for her in Black and White . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The Reason why in Black we go , It is , because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a Rage , And nothing could his Wrath assuage ; So then in Woods he would not dwell , But spends his Time in a loansome Cell . Thus you have herd the Birds Complaint , Taking Delight in their Restraint ; Let this to all a pattern be , For to Delight in Constancy . The SECOND PART . ONCE I down lay , One Morning in May , My Hands they being coupled fast ; My Heart did rejoice , To hear the sweet Voice Of the Birds singing as they did pass . First the Nightingale , Told all in good Part , In the following Words most plain ; Prithee kind Heart , Take all in good Part , And love when thou art lov'd again . Then spoke Titty Tom , There's many a Man , Whose Notes chnge nine Times in a WORSER [ ay ] Oh! then said this Reed , There's many Women , That do change as often as they ; Then replied the Crow , If it always be so , Upon Proof I will forfeit my Head ; For a Man so unjust , No Woman can trust Until the same Day he be dead . Then spoke the Magpie , Give me Reason why , You so rashly judge of all Men ; To which said the Lark , I do speak from my Heart , That Woman are far worse then them . Softly spoke the Dove , I rejoce'd once my Love , My Love she was loving and kind , Oh! reply'd the Rook , I'll be sworn on a Book , Such another yond never will find . Then spoke the hoarse Jay , I care not one Straw , Since that I can choose my own Mate : Reply'd the old Thrush , You shall have her in a Bush , Or take her in a lower Rate . Oh! then said the Duck , May you have better Luck , Than a Man that once I did know ; When he was from Home , Came another in's Room , Since we frequently hear the Cuckoo . H : 289739 THE Woody Choristers : OR , The BIRDS of HARMONY . In TWO PARTS When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with Pain , Did to each other thus Complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers Delight , etc O ! says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young Ones feed , And I myself do stand in Need. Then says the Sparrow on her Nest , I lov'd a Lass , but it was in Jest ; And ever since that self same Thing , I made a Vow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin , and thus he said , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Maid ; Her Be [ a ] uty kindled such a Spark , That on her B [ r ] east I bear the Mark . Then said the Lark upon the Grass , I lov'd once a Country Las ; She would not hear her true Love sing , Although his Voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I lov'd one , but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I lack , This is the Cause I mourn in Black . Oh! said the bonny Nightingale , Then must I end my mournful Tale ; While others sing I fit and mourn , Leaning my Breast against a Thorn . O says the Water-wagtail then , I ne'er shall be my self again ; I lov'd one but could not prevail , This is the Cause I wag my Tail . Then said the party-colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is fled away ; And Remembrance of my Dear , A Feather of ev'ry Sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my Tail , and I'll tell you what Is the Cause that I fly by Night , Because I lost my Heart's Delight . Then said the Greenfinch , as she flew , I lov'd one that prov'd untrue , And sicne she can no more be seen , Like a Lovesick Maid I turn to Green . Then did the chatterring Swallow , My Love she's fled , but I would not follow , And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor Melody . Oh! says the Owl , my Love is gone , That I so much did dote upon ; I know not how my Love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies ; But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly Pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no Comfort bring ; For oftentimes I at Midnight Record my Love and Heart's Delight . The Canary Bird she then came in , To tell her Tale she did begin ; I am of my dear Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Goldfinch then began to speak , For Love , quoth she , my Heart will break , I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two Months in the Year . Then quoth the Magpie , I was cross'd In Love and now my Dear is lost ; And wanting of my Heart's Delight , I mourn for her in Black and White . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The Reason why in Black we go , It is , because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a Rage , And nothing could his Wrath assuage ; So then in Woods he would not dwell , But spends his Time in a loansome Cell . Thus you have herd the Birds Complaint , Taking Delight in their Restraint ; Let this to all a pattern be , For to Delight in Constancy . The SECOND PART . ONCE I down lay , One Morning in May , My Hands they being coupled fast ; My Heart did rejoice , To hear the sweet Voice Of the Birds singing as they did pass . First the Nightingale , Told all in good Part , In the following Words most plain ; Prithee kind Heart , Take all in good Part , And love when thou art lov'd again . Then spoke Titty Tom , There's many a Man , Whose Notes chnge nine Times in a WORSER [ ay ] Oh! then said this Reed , There's many Women , That do change as often as they ; Then replied the Crow , If it always be so , Upon Proof I will forfeit my Head ; For a Man so unjust , No Woman can trust Until the same Day he be dead . Then spoke the Magpie , Give me Reason why , You so rashly judge of all Men ; To which said the Lark , I do speak from my Heart , That Woman are far worse then them . Softly spoke the Dove , I rejoce'd once my Love , My Love she was loving and kind , Oh! reply'd the Rook , I'll be sworn on a Book , Such another yond never will find . Then spoke the hoarse Jay , I care not one Straw , Since that I can choose my own Mate : Reply'd the old Thrush , You shall have her in a Bush , Or take her in a lower Rate . Oh! then said the Duck , May you have better Luck , Than a Man that once I did know ; When he was from Home , Came another in's Room , Since we frequently hear the Cuckoo . H : 289739 THE Woody Choristers : OR , The BIRDS of HARMONY . In TWO PARTS When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with Pain , Did to each other thus Complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers Delight , etc O ! says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young Ones feed , And I myself do stand in Need. Then says the Sparrow on her Nest , I lov'd a Lass , but it was in Jest ; And ever since that self same Thing , I made a Vow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin , and thus he said , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Maid ; Her Be [ a ] uty kindled such a Spark , That on her B [ r ] east I bear the Mark . Then said the Lark upon the Grass , I lov'd once a Country Las ; She would not hear her true Love sing , Although his Voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I lov'd one , but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I lack , This is the Cause I mourn in Black . Oh! said the bonny Nightingale , Then must I end my mournful Tale ; While others sing I fit and mourn , Leaning my Breast against a Thorn . O says the Water-wagtail then , I ne'er shall be my self again ; I lov'd one but could not prevail , This is the Cause I wag my Tail . Then said the party-colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is fled away ; And Remembrance of my Dear , A Feather of ev'ry Sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my Tail , and I'll tell you what Is the Cause that I fly by Night , Because I lost my Heart's Delight . Then said the Greenfinch , as she flew , I lov'd one that prov'd untrue , And sicne she can no more be seen , Like a Lovesick Maid I turn to Green . Then did the chatterring Swallow , My Love she's fled , but I would not follow , And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor Melody . Oh! says the Owl , my Love is gone , That I so much did dote upon ; I know not how my Love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies ; But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly Pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no Comfort bring ; For oftentimes I at Midnight Record my Love and Heart's Delight . The Canary Bird she then came in , To tell her Tale she did begin ; I am of my dear Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Goldfinch then began to speak , For Love , quoth she , my Heart will break , I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two Months in the Year . Then quoth the Magpie , I was cross'd In Love and now my Dear is lost ; And wanting of my Heart's Delight , I mourn for her in Black and White . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The Reason why in Black we go , It is , because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a Rage , And nothing could his Wrath assuage ; So then in Woods he would not dwell , But spends his Time in a loansome Cell . Thus you have herd the Birds Complaint , Taking Delight in their Restraint ; Let this to all a pattern be , For to Delight in Constancy . The SECOND PART . ONCE I down lay , One Morning in May , My Hands they being coupled fast ; My Heart did rejoice , To hear the sweet Voice Of the Birds singing as they did pass . First the Nightingale , Told all in good Part , In the following Words most plain ; Prithee kind Heart , Take all in good Part , And love when thou art lov'd again . Then spoke Titty Tom , There's many a Man , Whose Notes chnge nine Times in a WORSER [ ay ] Oh! then said this Reed , There's many Women , That do change as often as they ; Then replied the Crow , If it always be so , Upon Proof I will forfeit my Head ; For a Man so unjust , No Woman can trust Until the same Day he be dead . Then spoke the Magpie , Give me Reason why , You so rashly judge of all Men ; To which said the Lark , I do speak from my Heart , That Woman are far worse then them . Softly spoke the Dove , I rejoce'd once my Love , My Love she was loving and kind , Oh! reply'd the Rook , I'll be sworn on a Book , Such another yond never will find . Then spoke the hoarse Jay , I care not one Straw , Since that I can choose my own Mate : Reply'd the old Thrush , You shall have her in a Bush , Or take her in a lower Rate . Oh! then said the Duck , May you have better Luck , Than a Man that once I did know ; When he was from Home , Came another in's Room , Since we frequently hear the Cuckoo . H : 289739 THE Woody Choristers : OR , The BIRDS of HARMONY . In TWO PARTS When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with Pain , Did to each other thus Complain . To the Tune of , The Bird-catchers Delight , etc O ! says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young Ones feed , And I myself do stand in Need. Then says the Sparrow on her Nest , I lov'd a Lass , but it was in Jest ; And ever since that self same Thing , I made a Vow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin , and thus he said , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Maid ; Her Be [ a ] uty kindled such a Spark , That on her B [ r ] east I bear the Mark . Then said the Lark upon the Grass , I lov'd once a Country Las ; She would not hear her true Love sing , Although his Voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I lov'd one , but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I lack , This is the Cause I mourn in Black . Oh! said the bonny Nightingale , Then must I end my mournful Tale ; While others sing I fit and mourn , Leaning my Breast against a Thorn . O says the Water-wagtail then , I ne'er shall be my self again ; I lov'd one but could not prevail , This is the Cause I wag my Tail . Then said the party-colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is fled away ; And Remembrance of my Dear , A Feather of ev'ry Sort I wear . Then said the Leather-winged Batt , Mind but my Tail , and I'll tell you what Is the Cause that I fly by Night , Because I lost my Heart's Delight . Then said the Greenfinch , as she flew , I lov'd one that prov'd untrue , And sicne she can no more be seen , Like a Lovesick Maid I turn to Green . Then did the chatterring Swallow , My Love she's fled , but I would not follow , And now upon the Chimney high , I sing forth my poor Melody . Oh! says the Owl , my Love is gone , That I so much did dote upon ; I know not how my Love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the Meadows and the Skies ; But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly Pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no Comfort bring ; For oftentimes I at Midnight Record my Love and Heart's Delight . The Canary Bird she then came in , To tell her Tale she did begin ; I am of my dear Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Goldfinch then began to speak , For Love , quoth she , my Heart will break , I grieve so for my only dear , I sing but two Months in the Year . Then quoth the Magpie , I was cross'd In Love and now my Dear is lost ; And wanting of my Heart's Delight , I mourn for her in Black and White . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The Reason why in Black we go , It is , because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a Rage , And nothing could his Wrath assuage ; So then in Woods he would not dwell , But spends his Time in a loansome Cell . Thus you have herd the Birds Complaint , Taking Delight in their Restraint ; Let this to all a pattern be , For to Delight in Constancy . The SECOND PART . ONCE I down lay , One Morning in May , My Hands they being coupled fast ; My Heart did rejoice , To hear the sweet Voice Of the Birds singing as they did pass . First the Nightingale , Told all in good Part , In the following Words most plain ; Prithee kind Heart , Take all in good Part , And love when thou art lov'd again . Then spoke Titty Tom , There's many a Man , Whose Notes chnge nine Times in a WORSER [ ay ] Oh! then said this Reed , There's many Women , That do change as often as they ; Then replied the Crow , If it always be so , Upon Proof I will forfeit my Head ; For a Man so unjust , No Woman can trust Until the same Day he be dead . Then spoke the Magpie , Give me Reason why , You so rashly judge of all Men ; To which said the Lark , I do speak from my Heart , That Woman are far worse then them . Softly spoke the Dove , I rejoce'd once my Love , My Love she was loving and kind , Oh! reply'd the Rook , I'll be sworn on a Book , Such another yond never will find . Then spoke the hoarse Jay , I care not one Straw , Since that I can choose my own Mate : Reply'd the old Thrush , You shall have her in a Bush , Or take her in a lower Rate . Oh! then said the Duck , May you have better Luck , Than a Man that once I did know ; When he was from Home , Came another in's Room , Since we frequently hear the Cuckoo . 