H : 289746 The WANDERING JEW ; OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , who lived when our Saviour Christ was crucified , and appointed to live until his coming again . To the Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live , And for the Sins of all the World , His own dear Life did give . The wicked Jews with Scoffs and Scorns , Did daily him molest , That never till he left this Life , Our Saviour could have Rest. Repent now therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have Space , And do not like this wicked Jew , Despise God's proffer'd Grace . When they crowned his Head with Thorns , And scourg'd him with Disgrace : In scornful Sport they led him forth , Unto his dying Place . Where Thousands , Thousands in the Streets , Did see him pass along ; Yet not one gentle Heart was there , That did pity his Wrong . Both Old and Young reviled him , As in the Streets he went , And nothing found but churlish Taunts , By every one's Consent . His own dear Cross he boar himself , A Burden far too great . Which made him in the Street to faint , With Blood and heavy Sweat . Being weary thus , he sought to Rest , To ease his burdened Soul Upon a Stone , this wicked Wretch , Did churlishly control . And said , Away ! thou King of th' Jews , Thou shalt not rest thee here , Pass to thy Execution Place , Thou seest now draws near . And thereupon he thirst him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shall walk , Thy Steps shall ne'er be stayed . With that this cursed Shoemaker , For offering Christ this wrong , Left Wife and Children , House , and all , And went from thence along . Where after he had seen the Blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , Away with Speed he fled . Without returning back again , Unto his Dwelling-place ; And wandering up and down the World , A Runagate most base . No resting could he find at all , No Ease , or Heart's Content ; No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place , But far from Home he went . From Town to Town in foreign Lands , With his grieved Conscience , Repenting for the henious Gilded , Of his past great Offence . Thus after some few Ages past , In wandering up and down , He much again desired to see , Jerusalem's Renown . But finding it all quite destroy'd , He went from thence with Woe , Our Saviour's Words which he had spoke , To verify and show . I'll rest , said he , but thou shall walk , So does this wand'ring Jew , From Place to Place , but cannot stay , For seeking Counsel new . Declaring still the Power of him , Where e'er he comes or goes ; And of all Things done in the East , Since Christ his Death he shows . The World he hath encompass'd round , And seen those Nations strange ; That hearing of the Name of Christ , Their Idol Gods do change . To whom he had told wond'rous Things , Of Times 'fore past and gone , And to the Princes of this World , He makes a grievous Moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd , And yield his mortal Breath : But if the Lord has thus decreed , How shall he yet see Death . For neither Looks he old or young , But as in those sad Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , For mortal Sinner's Crimes . He passed many a foreign Land , Arabia , Africa , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , And through all Hungaria . Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed Apostles dear ; Where he had told our Saviour's Words , In Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders , as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned Men with him confer , Of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell , His Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , The most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a Time , Which he for Jesus's Sake Will freely give unto the Poor , And therefore makes no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ , Of him hath daily Care . He ne'er was seen to laugh or smile , But weep and make great moan ; Lamenting still his Misery's , And Days 'fore past and gone . If he hear any one blaspheme , Or take God's Name in vain , He tells them that they crucify Their Master Christ again . If thou had seen grim Death , says he , As these mine Eyes have done ; Ten thousand , thousand Times would you , His Torments think upon . And suffer for his Sake all Pain , All Torments and all Woes : This is the Life , and these his Words , Where e'er he comes or goes . H : 289746 The WANDERING JEW ; OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , who lived when our Saviour Christ was crucified , and appointed to live until his coming again . To the Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live , And for the Sins of all the World , His own dear Life did give . The wicked Jews with Scoffs and Scorns , Did daily him molest , That never till he left this Life , Our Saviour could have Rest. Repent now therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have Space , And do not like this wicked Jew , Despise God's proffer'd Grace . When they crowned his Head with Thorns , And scourg'd him with Disgrace : In scornful Sport they led him forth , Unto his dying Place . Where Thousands , Thousands in the Streets , Did see him pass along ; Yet not one gentle Heart was there , That did pity his Wrong . Both Old and Young reviled him , As in the Streets he went , And nothing found but churlish Taunts , By every one's Consent . His own dear Cross he boar himself , A Burden far too great . Which made him in the Street to faint , With Blood and heavy Sweat . Being weary thus , he sought to Rest , To ease his burdened Soul Upon a Stone , this wicked Wretch , Did churlishly control . And said , Away ! thou King of th' Jews , Thou shalt not rest thee here , Pass to thy Execution Place , Thou seest now draws near . And thereupon he thirst him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shall walk , Thy Steps shall ne'er be stayed . With that this cursed Shoemaker , For offering Christ this wrong , Left Wife and Children , House , and all , And went from thence along . Where after he had seen the Blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , Away with Speed he fled . Without returning back again , Unto his Dwelling-place ; And wandering up and down the World , A Runagate most base . No resting could he find at all , No Ease , or Heart's Content ; No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place , But far from Home he went . From Town to Town in foreign Lands , With his grieved Conscience , Repenting for the henious Gilded , Of his past great Offence . Thus after some few Ages past , In wandering up and down , He much again desired to see , Jerusalem's Renown . But finding it all quite destroy'd , He went from thence with Woe , Our Saviour's Words which he had spoke , To verify and show . I'll rest , said he , but thou shall walk , So does this wand'ring Jew , From Place to Place , but cannot stay , For seeking Counsel new . Declaring still the Power of him , Where e'er he comes or goes ; And of all Things done in the East , Since Christ his Death he shows . The World he hath encompass'd round , And seen those Nations strange ; That hearing of the Name of Christ , Their Idol Gods do change . To whom he had told wond'rous Things , Of Times 'fore past and gone , And to the Princes of this World , He makes a grievous Moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd , And yield his mortal Breath : But if the Lord has thus decreed , How shall he yet see Death . For neither Looks he old or young , But as in those sad Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , For mortal Sinner's Crimes . He passed many a foreign Land , Arabia , Africa , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , And through all Hungaria . Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed Apostles dear ; Where he had told our Saviour's Words , In Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders , as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned Men with him confer , Of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell , His Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , The most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a Time , Which he for Jesus's Sake Will freely give unto the Poor , And therefore makes no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ , Of him hath daily Care . He ne'er was seen to laugh or smile , But weep and make great moan ; Lamenting still his Misery's , And Days 'fore past and gone . If he hear any one blaspheme , Or take God's Name in vain , He tells them that they crucify Their Master Christ again . If thou had seen grim Death , says he , As these mine Eyes have done ; Ten thousand , thousand Times would you , His Torments think upon . And suffer for his Sake all Pain , All Torments and all Woes : This is the Life , and these his Words , Where e'er he comes or goes . H : 289746 The WANDERING JEW ; OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , who lived when our Saviour Christ was crucified , and appointed to live until his coming again . To the Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live , And for the Sins of all the World , His own dear Life did give . The wicked Jews with Scoffs and Scorns , Did daily him molest , That never till he left this Life , Our Saviour could have Rest. Repent now therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have Space , And do not like this wicked Jew , Despise God's proffer'd Grace . When they crowned his Head with Thorns , And scourg'd him with Disgrace : In scornful Sport they led him forth , Unto his dying Place . Where Thousands , Thousands in the Streets , Did see him pass along ; Yet not one gentle Heart was there , That did pity his Wrong . Both Old and Young reviled him , As in the Streets he went , And nothing found but churlish Taunts , By every one's Consent . His own dear Cross he boar himself , A Burden far too great . Which made him in the Street to faint , With Blood and heavy Sweat . Being weary thus , he sought to Rest , To ease his burdened Soul Upon a Stone , this wicked Wretch , Did churlishly control . And said , Away ! thou King of th' Jews , Thou shalt not rest thee here , Pass to thy Execution Place , Thou seest now draws near . And thereupon he thirst him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shall walk , Thy Steps shall ne'er be stayed . With that this cursed Shoemaker , For offering Christ this wrong , Left Wife and Children , House , and all , And went from thence along . Where after he had seen the Blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , Away with Speed he fled . Without returning back again , Unto his Dwelling-place ; And wandering up and down the World , A Runagate most base . No resting could he find at all , No Ease , or Heart's Content ; No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place , But far from Home he went . From Town to Town in foreign Lands , With his grieved Conscience , Repenting for the henious Gilded , Of his past great Offence . Thus after some few Ages past , In wandering up and down , He much again desired to see , Jerusalem's Renown . But finding it all quite destroy'd , He went from thence with Woe , Our Saviour's Words which he had spoke , To verify and show . I'll rest , said he , but thou shall walk , So does this wand'ring Jew , From Place to Place , but cannot stay , For seeking Counsel new . Declaring still the Power of him , Where e'er he comes or goes ; And of all Things done in the East , Since Christ his Death he shows . The World he hath encompass'd round , And seen those Nations strange ; That hearing of the Name of Christ , Their Idol Gods do change . To whom he had told wond'rous Things , Of Times 'fore past and gone , And to the Princes of this World , He makes a grievous Moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd , And yield his mortal Breath : But if the Lord has thus decreed , How shall he yet see Death . For neither Looks he old or young , But as in those sad Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , For mortal Sinner's Crimes . He passed many a foreign Land , Arabia , Africa , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , And through all Hungaria . Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed Apostles dear ; Where he had told our Saviour's Words , In Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders , as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned Men with him confer , Of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell , His Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , The most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a Time , Which he for Jesus's Sake Will freely give unto the Poor , And therefore makes no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ , Of him hath daily Care . He ne'er was seen to laugh or smile , But weep and make great moan ; Lamenting still his Misery's , And Days 'fore past and gone . If he hear any one blaspheme , Or take God's Name in vain , He tells them that they crucify Their Master Christ again . If thou had seen grim Death , says he , As these mine Eyes have done ; Ten thousand , thousand Times would you , His Torments think upon . And suffer for his Sake all Pain , All Torments and all Woes : This is the Life , and these his Words , Where e'er he comes or goes . H : 289746 The WANDERING JEW ; OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , who lived when our Saviour Christ was crucified , and appointed to live until his coming again . To the Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live , And for the Sins of all the World , His own dear Life did give . The wicked Jews with Scoffs and Scorns , Did daily him molest , That never till he left this Life , Our Saviour could have Rest. Repent now therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have Space , And do not like this wicked Jew , Despise God's proffer'd Grace . When they crowned his Head with Thorns , And scourg'd him with Disgrace : In scornful Sport they led him forth , Unto his dying Place . Where Thousands , Thousands in the Streets , Did see him pass along ; Yet not one gentle Heart was there , That did pity his Wrong . Both Old and Young reviled him , As in the Streets he went , And nothing found but churlish Taunts , By every one's Consent . His own dear Cross he boar himself , A Burden far too great . Which made him in the Street to faint , With Blood and heavy Sweat . Being weary thus , he sought to Rest , To ease his burdened Soul Upon a Stone , this wicked Wretch , Did churlishly control . And said , Away ! thou King of th' Jews , Thou shalt not rest thee here , Pass to thy Execution Place , Thou seest now draws near . And thereupon he thirst him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shall walk , Thy Steps shall ne'er be stayed . With that this cursed Shoemaker , For offering Christ this wrong , Left Wife and Children , House , and all , And went from thence along . Where after he had seen the Blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , Away with Speed he fled . Without returning back again , Unto his Dwelling-place ; And wandering up and down the World , A Runagate most base . No resting could he find at all , No Ease , or Heart's Content ; No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place , But far from Home he went . From Town to Town in foreign Lands , With his grieved Conscience , Repenting for the henious Gilded , Of his past great Offence . Thus after some few Ages past , In wandering up and down , He much again desired to see , Jerusalem's Renown . But finding it all quite destroy'd , He went from thence with Woe , Our Saviour's Words which he had spoke , To verify and show . I'll rest , said he , but thou shall walk , So does this wand'ring Jew , From Place to Place , but cannot stay , For seeking Counsel new . Declaring still the Power of him , Where e'er he comes or goes ; And of all Things done in the East , Since Christ his Death he shows . The World he hath encompass'd round , And seen those Nations strange ; That hearing of the Name of Christ , Their Idol Gods do change . To whom he had told wond'rous Things , Of Times 'fore past and gone , And to the Princes of this World , He makes a grievous Moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd , And yield his mortal Breath : But if the Lord has thus decreed , How shall he yet see Death . For neither Looks he old or young , But as in those sad Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , For mortal Sinner's Crimes . He passed many a foreign Land , Arabia , Africa , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , And through all Hungaria . Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed Apostles dear ; Where he had told our Saviour's Words , In Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders , as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned Men with him confer , Of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell , His Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , The most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a Time , Which he for Jesus's Sake Will freely give unto the Poor , And therefore makes no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ , Of him hath daily Care . He ne'er was seen to laugh or smile , But weep and make great moan ; Lamenting still his Misery's , And Days 'fore past and gone . If he hear any one blaspheme , Or take God's Name in vain , He tells them that they crucify Their Master Christ again . If thou had seen grim Death , says he , As these mine Eyes have done ; Ten thousand , thousand Times would you , His Torments think upon . And suffer for his Sake all Pain , All Torments and all Woes : This is the Life , and these his Words , Where e'er he comes or goes . 