H : 289741 The SUFFOLK MIRACLE ; OR , The Relation of a young Man , who after his Death appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles , in two Hours Time , and was never seen after , but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My Bleeding Heart , etc A Wonder strange as e'er was known , Then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell , A Farmer rich , and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , On whom he plac'd his chief Delight , Her Beauty was beyond compare , She was both virtuous and fair . A young Man there was living by , Who was so charmed with her Eye , That he could never be at rest , He was with Love so much possessed . He made Address to her and she Did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear , He parted her , and her poor Dear . Forty Miles distant was she sent , Unto his Brother with intent , That she should there so long remain , Till she had chang'd her mind again , Hereat this young Man sadly griev'd , But knew not how to be reliev'd , He sigh'd , and sob'd continually , That his true Love he could not see . She by no Means could to him send , Who was her Heart's espoused Friend , He sigh'd , she griev'd , but all in vain , For she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctor's Art Could give no Ease unto his Heart , Who was so strangely terrify'd , That in short time for Love he dy'd . She that from him was sent away , Knew nothing of his dying Day , But constant still she did remain , To Love the Dead was then in vain . After he had in Grave been laid , A Month or more , unto this Maid He comes about middle of the Night , Who joy'd to see her Heart's Delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew , To be her Mother's Safeguard too , He brought with him to testify , Her Parent's Order he came by . Which when her Uncle understood , He hop'd it might be for her Good , And gave consent to her straight way , That with him she should come away . When she was god her Love behind , They pass'd as swift as any wind , That in two Hours , or little more He brought her to her Father's Door . But as they did this great haste make , He did complain his Head did ache , Her Handkerchief she then took out , And ty'd the same his Head about . And unto him she thus did say , Thou art as cold as any Clay , When we come home a Fire we'll have , But little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's Door , And after she ne'er see him more ; I'll set the Horse up then , he said , And there he left this harmless Maid . She knocked and straight a main , he cry'd , Who's there ? 'tis I , she then reply'd : Who wonder'd much her Voice to hear , And was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father she did tell , and then , He star'd like and affrighted Man , Down Stairs he ran and when he see her , Cry'd out , my Child , how cam'st thou here ? prey Sir , did you not send for me , By such a Messenger , said she , Which made his Hair stare on his Head , As knowing well that he was dead , Where is he then , to her , he said , He's in the Stable , quoth the Maid , Go in said he , and go to Bed , I'll see the Horse well littered . He star'd about and there could he , No shape of any Mankind see , But found his Horse all in a sweat , Which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing to , Nor no one else , though well they knew , That he was dead a Month before , For fear of grieving her full soar . Her Father to his Father went , ( Who was deceas'd ) with this Intent , To tell him what his Daughter said ; So both came back unto this Maid . They ask'd her and she still did say , 'Twas he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amaz'd And on each other strangely gaz'd . A Handkerchief , she said , she ty'd , About his Head , and that they try'd , The Saxton they did speak unto , That he the Grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold , His Body turning into mould , And tho' he had a month been dead , This Handkerchief was about his Head This thing unto her then they told , And the whole truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified And griev'd , she quickly after died . Part not true Love , you rich Men then , But if they be right honest Men , Your Daughter's Love give them their way For force oft breeds their Life's decay . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289741 The SUFFOLK MIRACLE ; OR , The Relation of a young Man , who after his Death appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles , in two Hours Time , and was never seen after , but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My Bleeding Heart , etc A Wonder strange as e'er was known , Then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell , A Farmer rich , and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , On whom he plac'd his chief Delight , Her Beauty was beyond compare , She was both virtuous and fair . A young Man there was living by , Who was so charmed with her Eye , That he could never be at rest , He was with Love so much possessed . He made Address to her and she Did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear , He parted her , and her poor Dear . Forty Miles distant was she sent , Unto his Brother with intent , That she should there so long remain , Till she had chang'd her mind again , Hereat this young Man sadly griev'd , But knew not how to be reliev'd , He sigh'd , and sob'd continually , That his true Love he could not see . She by no Means could to him send , Who was her Heart's espoused Friend , He sigh'd , she griev'd , but all in vain , For she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctor's Art Could give no Ease unto his Heart , Who was so strangely terrify'd , That in short time for Love he dy'd . She that from him was sent away , Knew nothing of his dying Day , But constant still she did remain , To Love the Dead was then in vain . After he had in Grave been laid , A Month or more , unto this Maid He comes about middle of the Night , Who joy'd to see her Heart's Delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew , To be her Mother's Safeguard too , He brought with him to testify , Her Parent's Order he came by . Which when her Uncle understood , He hop'd it might be for her Good , And gave consent to her straight way , That with him she should come away . When she was god her Love behind , They pass'd as swift as any wind , That in two Hours , or little more He brought her to her Father's Door . But as they did this great haste make , He did complain his Head did ache , Her Handkerchief she then took out , And ty'd the same his Head about . And unto him she thus did say , Thou art as cold as any Clay , When we come home a Fire we'll have , But little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's Door , And after she ne'er see him more ; I'll set the Horse up then , he said , And there he left this harmless Maid . She knocked and straight a main , he cry'd , Who's there ? 'tis I , she then reply'd : Who wonder'd much her Voice to hear , And was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father she did tell , and then , He star'd like and affrighted Man , Down Stairs he ran and when he see her , Cry'd out , my Child , how cam'st thou here ? prey Sir , did you not send for me , By such a Messenger , said she , Which made his Hair stare on his Head , As knowing well that he was dead , Where is he then , to her , he said , He's in the Stable , quoth the Maid , Go in said he , and go to Bed , I'll see the Horse well littered . He star'd about and there could he , No shape of any Mankind see , But found his Horse all in a sweat , Which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing to , Nor no one else , though well they knew , That he was dead a Month before , For fear of grieving her full soar . Her Father to his Father went , ( Who was deceas'd ) with this Intent , To tell him what his Daughter said ; So both came back unto this Maid . They ask'd her and she still did say , 'Twas he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amaz'd And on each other strangely gaz'd . A Handkerchief , she said , she ty'd , About his Head , and that they try'd , The Saxton they did speak unto , That he the Grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold , His Body turning into mould , And tho' he had a month been dead , This Handkerchief was about his Head This thing unto her then they told , And the whole truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified And griev'd , she quickly after died . Part not true Love , you rich Men then , But if they be right honest Men , Your Daughter's Love give them their way For force oft breeds their Life's decay . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289741 The SUFFOLK MIRACLE ; OR , The Relation of a young Man , who after his Death appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles , in two Hours Time , and was never seen after , but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My Bleeding Heart , etc A Wonder strange as e'er was known , Then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell , A Farmer rich , and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , On whom he plac'd his chief Delight , Her Beauty was beyond compare , She was both virtuous and fair . A young Man there was living by , Who was so charmed with her Eye , That he could never be at rest , He was with Love so much possessed . He made Address to her and she Did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear , He parted her , and her poor Dear . Forty Miles distant was she sent , Unto his Brother with intent , That she should there so long remain , Till she had chang'd her mind again , Hereat this young Man sadly griev'd , But knew not how to be reliev'd , He sigh'd , and sob'd continually , That his true Love he could not see . She by no Means could to him send , Who was her Heart's espoused Friend , He sigh'd , she griev'd , but all in vain , For she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctor's Art Could give no Ease unto his Heart , Who was so strangely terrify'd , That in short time for Love he dy'd . She that from him was sent away , Knew nothing of his dying Day , But constant still she did remain , To Love the Dead was then in vain . After he had in Grave been laid , A Month or more , unto this Maid He comes about middle of the Night , Who joy'd to see her Heart's Delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew , To be her Mother's Safeguard too , He brought with him to testify , Her Parent's Order he came by . Which when her Uncle understood , He hop'd it might be for her Good , And gave consent to her straight way , That with him she should come away . When she was god her Love behind , They pass'd as swift as any wind , That in two Hours , or little more He brought her to her Father's Door . But as they did this great haste make , He did complain his Head did ache , Her Handkerchief she then took out , And ty'd the same his Head about . And unto him she thus did say , Thou art as cold as any Clay , When we come home a Fire we'll have , But little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's Door , And after she ne'er see him more ; I'll set the Horse up then , he said , And there he left this harmless Maid . She knocked and straight a main , he cry'd , Who's there ? 'tis I , she then reply'd : Who wonder'd much her Voice to hear , And was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father she did tell , and then , He star'd like and affrighted Man , Down Stairs he ran and when he see her , Cry'd out , my Child , how cam'st thou here ? prey Sir , did you not send for me , By such a Messenger , said she , Which made his Hair stare on his Head , As knowing well that he was dead , Where is he then , to her , he said , He's in the Stable , quoth the Maid , Go in said he , and go to Bed , I'll see the Horse well littered . He star'd about and there could he , No shape of any Mankind see , But found his Horse all in a sweat , Which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing to , Nor no one else , though well they knew , That he was dead a Month before , For fear of grieving her full soar . Her Father to his Father went , ( Who was deceas'd ) with this Intent , To tell him what his Daughter said ; So both came back unto this Maid . They ask'd her and she still did say , 'Twas he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amaz'd And on each other strangely gaz'd . A Handkerchief , she said , she ty'd , About his Head , and that they try'd , The Saxton they did speak unto , That he the Grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold , His Body turning into mould , And tho' he had a month been dead , This Handkerchief was about his Head This thing unto her then they told , And the whole truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified And griev'd , she quickly after died . Part not true Love , you rich Men then , But if they be right honest Men , Your Daughter's Love give them their way For force oft breeds their Life's decay . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289741 The SUFFOLK MIRACLE ; OR , The Relation of a young Man , who after his Death appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles , in two Hours Time , and was never seen after , but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My Bleeding Heart , etc A Wonder strange as e'er was known , Then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell , A Farmer rich , and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , On whom he plac'd his chief Delight , Her Beauty was beyond compare , She was both virtuous and fair . A young Man there was living by , Who was so charmed with her Eye , That he could never be at rest , He was with Love so much possessed . He made Address to her and she Did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear , He parted her , and her poor Dear . Forty Miles distant was she sent , Unto his Brother with intent , That she should there so long remain , Till she had chang'd her mind again , Hereat this young Man sadly griev'd , But knew not how to be reliev'd , He sigh'd , and sob'd continually , That his true Love he could not see . She by no Means could to him send , Who was her Heart's espoused Friend , He sigh'd , she griev'd , but all in vain , For she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctor's Art Could give no Ease unto his Heart , Who was so strangely terrify'd , That in short time for Love he dy'd . She that from him was sent away , Knew nothing of his dying Day , But constant still she did remain , To Love the Dead was then in vain . After he had in Grave been laid , A Month or more , unto this Maid He comes about middle of the Night , Who joy'd to see her Heart's Delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew , To be her Mother's Safeguard too , He brought with him to testify , Her Parent's Order he came by . Which when her Uncle understood , He hop'd it might be for her Good , And gave consent to her straight way , That with him she should come away . When she was god her Love behind , They pass'd as swift as any wind , That in two Hours , or little more He brought her to her Father's Door . But as they did this great haste make , He did complain his Head did ache , Her Handkerchief she then took out , And ty'd the same his Head about . And unto him she thus did say , Thou art as cold as any Clay , When we come home a Fire we'll have , But little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's Door , And after she ne'er see him more ; I'll set the Horse up then , he said , And there he left this harmless Maid . She knocked and straight a main , he cry'd , Who's there ? 'tis I , she then reply'd : Who wonder'd much her Voice to hear , And was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father she did tell , and then , He star'd like and affrighted Man , Down Stairs he ran and when he see her , Cry'd out , my Child , how cam'st thou here ? prey Sir , did you not send for me , By such a Messenger , said she , Which made his Hair stare on his Head , As knowing well that he was dead , Where is he then , to her , he said , He's in the Stable , quoth the Maid , Go in said he , and go to Bed , I'll see the Horse well littered . He star'd about and there could he , No shape of any Mankind see , But found his Horse all in a sweat , Which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing to , Nor no one else , though well they knew , That he was dead a Month before , For fear of grieving her full soar . Her Father to his Father went , ( Who was deceas'd ) with this Intent , To tell him what his Daughter said ; So both came back unto this Maid . They ask'd her and she still did say , 'Twas he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amaz'd And on each other strangely gaz'd . A Handkerchief , she said , she ty'd , About his Head , and that they try'd , The Saxton they did speak unto , That he the Grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold , His Body turning into mould , And tho' he had a month been dead , This Handkerchief was about his Head This thing unto her then they told , And the whole truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified And griev'd , she quickly after died . Part not true Love , you rich Men then , But if they be right honest Men , Your Daughter's Love give them their way For force oft breeds their Life's decay . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 