H : 289743 THE PLYMOUTH Tragedy : OR , Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear . Let all cruel parents by this take warning . In [ l ] ove do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth-town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her name ; A young ship-carpenter came for to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear ; If you deny me my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty , be not so severe . Susan reply'd to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Although I have god many more suitors , And none but sweet William my heart can approve . But William reply'd , Three years on the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe . After that day this couple were parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay ; They saih , Child , it is but your duty , Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pear Your beoutiful charms , dear child , are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore ; I made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or [ more ] This not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love Heaven sure will require . Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love shall be my delight , Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you Never each other more you shall see . And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banish'd forever from me . Then , cruel farther , answer'd the damsel , If that's your will I am bound to obey . May the crime be yours forever , The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her To marry the merchant , tho' never near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant , To my dear Billy , who's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyel , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Who said , at the East-Indies your love did expire , Then dying he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say : Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , How to another I'm forced away , Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consen Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent Costly rich robes and fine jewels . Then were prepared for the bride , With a noble train to attend them . To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play , Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were happy , Because this was a fatal and sad wedding-day . This very week sweet William arrived All in the Downs with a very good cheer . And to let Susan know these happy tidings Strait wrote a letter , and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw the postman ring at the door . Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , That he had a letter for her . Strait to the door she flew in passion , Eagerly taking the letter in hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruin'd forever . Her costly robes she in pieces did tear , Go , unkind parents , for you have been cruel , Thus to part me from my only dear , What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows . It was cursed gold of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying , Fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband . And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my dear husband , It is not my charms can enjoy . Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death sent a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed she no comfort can have . Crying out , Death , now come ease me , Oh! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bride-men wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show , William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear , Get violets and thyme to make my love poesies , Let the funeral wine be the water so clear . I'll go to William that's loyal hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear , Then with a sighs and groan she departed , Parents , take warning by what's written hear : When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd . And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William , who then in his cabin lay sleeping , Was ask [ ' ] worser by a voice that strangely did cry , William , arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright at the sun , Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed . William , make haste , to your lover come . William , soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan ; His looks more pale then the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did disappear . Willam then raved like one in distraction , Crying , Has death robbed me of my dear When at fair Plymouth-town he arrived , Straightway the tidings to him was told . He said , Unkind and most cruel parent [ s ] Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love but my dear . Soon after thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire Oh! cruel fortune , to lovers severe . That very night to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay . Upon her coffin he then expired , And by her parents was found next day . Now these two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb : You covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloomH : 289743 THE PLYMOUTH Tragedy : OR , Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear . Let all cruel parents by this take warning . In [ l ] ove do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth-town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her name ; A young ship-carpenter came for to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear ; If you deny me my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty , be not so severe . Susan reply'd to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Although I have god many more suitors , And none but sweet William my heart can approve . But William reply'd , Three years on the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe . After that day this couple were parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay ; They saih , Child , it is but your duty , Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pear Your beoutiful charms , dear child , are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore ; I made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or [ more ] This not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love Heaven sure will require . Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love shall be my delight , Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you Never each other more you shall see . And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banish'd forever from me . Then , cruel farther , answer'd the damsel , If that's your will I am bound to obey . May the crime be yours forever , The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her To marry the merchant , tho' never near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant , To my dear Billy , who's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyel , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Who said , at the East-Indies your love did expire , Then dying he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say : Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , How to another I'm forced away , Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consen Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent Costly rich robes and fine jewels . Then were prepared for the bride , With a noble train to attend them . To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play , Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were happy , Because this was a fatal and sad wedding-day . This very week sweet William arrived All in the Downs with a very good cheer . And to let Susan know these happy tidings Strait wrote a letter , and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw the postman ring at the door . Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , That he had a letter for her . Strait to the door she flew in passion , Eagerly taking the letter in hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruin'd forever . Her costly robes she in pieces did tear , Go , unkind parents , for you have been cruel , Thus to part me from my only dear , What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows . It was cursed gold of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying , Fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband . And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my dear husband , It is not my charms can enjoy . Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death sent a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed she no comfort can have . Crying out , Death , now come ease me , Oh! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bride-men wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show , William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear , Get violets and thyme to make my love poesies , Let the funeral wine be the water so clear . I'll go to William that's loyal hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear , Then with a sighs and groan she departed , Parents , take warning by what's written hear : When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd . And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William , who then in his cabin lay sleeping , Was ask [ ' ] worser by a voice that strangely did cry , William , arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright at the sun , Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed . William , make haste , to your lover come . William , soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan ; His looks more pale then the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did disappear . Willam then raved like one in distraction , Crying , Has death robbed me of my dear When at fair Plymouth-town he arrived , Straightway the tidings to him was told . He said , Unkind and most cruel parent [ s ] Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love but my dear . Soon after thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire Oh! cruel fortune , to lovers severe . That very night to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay . Upon her coffin he then expired , And by her parents was found next day . Now these two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb : You covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloomH : 289743 THE PLYMOUTH Tragedy : OR , Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear . Let all cruel parents by this take warning . In [ l ] ove do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth-town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her name ; A young ship-carpenter came for to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear ; If you deny me my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty , be not so severe . Susan reply'd to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Although I have god many more suitors , And none but sweet William my heart can approve . But William reply'd , Three years on the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe . After that day this couple were parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay ; They saih , Child , it is but your duty , Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pear Your beoutiful charms , dear child , are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore ; I made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or [ more ] This not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love Heaven sure will require . Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love shall be my delight , Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you Never each other more you shall see . And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banish'd forever from me . Then , cruel farther , answer'd the damsel , If that's your will I am bound to obey . May the crime be yours forever , The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her To marry the merchant , tho' never near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant , To my dear Billy , who's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyel , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Who said , at the East-Indies your love did expire , Then dying he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say : Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , How to another I'm forced away , Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consen Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent Costly rich robes and fine jewels . Then were prepared for the bride , With a noble train to attend them . To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play , Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were happy , Because this was a fatal and sad wedding-day . This very week sweet William arrived All in the Downs with a very good cheer . And to let Susan know these happy tidings Strait wrote a letter , and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw the postman ring at the door . Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , That he had a letter for her . Strait to the door she flew in passion , Eagerly taking the letter in hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruin'd forever . Her costly robes she in pieces did tear , Go , unkind parents , for you have been cruel , Thus to part me from my only dear , What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows . It was cursed gold of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying , Fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband . And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my dear husband , It is not my charms can enjoy . Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death sent a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed she no comfort can have . Crying out , Death , now come ease me , Oh! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bride-men wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show , William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear , Get violets and thyme to make my love poesies , Let the funeral wine be the water so clear . I'll go to William that's loyal hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear , Then with a sighs and groan she departed , Parents , take warning by what's written hear : When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd . And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William , who then in his cabin lay sleeping , Was ask [ ' ] worser by a voice that strangely did cry , William , arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright at the sun , Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed . William , make haste , to your lover come . William , soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan ; His looks more pale then the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did disappear . Willam then raved like one in distraction , Crying , Has death robbed me of my dear When at fair Plymouth-town he arrived , Straightway the tidings to him was told . He said , Unkind and most cruel parent [ s ] Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love but my dear . Soon after thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire Oh! cruel fortune , to lovers severe . That very night to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay . Upon her coffin he then expired , And by her parents was found next day . Now these two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb : You covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloomH : 289743 THE PLYMOUTH Tragedy : OR , Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear . Let all cruel parents by this take warning . In [ l ] ove do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth-town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her name ; A young ship-carpenter came for to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear ; If you deny me my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty , be not so severe . Susan reply'd to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Although I have god many more suitors , And none but sweet William my heart can approve . But William reply'd , Three years on the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe . After that day this couple were parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay ; They saih , Child , it is but your duty , Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pear Your beoutiful charms , dear child , are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore ; I made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or [ more ] This not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love Heaven sure will require . Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love shall be my delight , Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you Never each other more you shall see . And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banish'd forever from me . Then , cruel farther , answer'd the damsel , If that's your will I am bound to obey . May the crime be yours forever , The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her To marry the merchant , tho' never near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant , To my dear Billy , who's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyel , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Who said , at the East-Indies your love did expire , Then dying he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say : Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , How to another I'm forced away , Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consen Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent Costly rich robes and fine jewels . Then were prepared for the bride , With a noble train to attend them . To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play , Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were happy , Because this was a fatal and sad wedding-day . This very week sweet William arrived All in the Downs with a very good cheer . And to let Susan know these happy tidings Strait wrote a letter , and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw the postman ring at the door . Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , That he had a letter for her . Strait to the door she flew in passion , Eagerly taking the letter in hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruin'd forever . Her costly robes she in pieces did tear , Go , unkind parents , for you have been cruel , Thus to part me from my only dear , What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows . It was cursed gold of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying , Fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband . And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my dear husband , It is not my charms can enjoy . Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death sent a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed she no comfort can have . Crying out , Death , now come ease me , Oh! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bride-men wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show , William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear , Get violets and thyme to make my love poesies , Let the funeral wine be the water so clear . I'll go to William that's loyal hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear , Then with a sighs and groan she departed , Parents , take warning by what's written hear : When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd . And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William , who then in his cabin lay sleeping , Was ask [ ' ] worser by a voice that strangely did cry , William , arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright at the sun , Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed . William , make haste , to your lover come . William , soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan ; His looks more pale then the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did disappear . Willam then raved like one in distraction , Crying , Has death robbed me of my dear When at fair Plymouth-town he arrived , Straightway the tidings to him was told . He said , Unkind and most cruel parent [ s ] Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love but my dear . Soon after thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire Oh! cruel fortune , to lovers severe . That very night to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay . Upon her coffin he then expired , And by her parents was found next day . Now these two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb : You covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloom 