H : 18329 A Ballad entitled / A cold Pie for the Papists , Wherein is contained : The Trust of true Subjects for suppressing of Seditious Papistry and Rebellion : to the maintenance of the Gospel , and the public Peace of Englande . Made to be song to Lassiamiza Noate . WHat Christian that the Lord does fear , Can sobs & blubbering tears forbear , the time to way uprightly ? To see how subject's Ebb and Flow , Whereby great discord haps to grow , a thing God knows unsightly : Whereby our Queen and Realm we see , By such ( alas ) disquiet be , But God cut short the rage of those , As seek to be their Countries Foes , Beatrice down their brags their boast deface , Unto our Queen Lord grant thy grace , That she the sword from sheath may draw To vanquish such as hate thy law , Then shall we be : from danger free , Grant heavenly God , thus it may be . The careless Crew the shameless Rout , Of Papists proved whose hearts most stout , thy Gospel are disdaining : Who secretly in corners lurk , Much mischief here and there to work , within our land remaining : Deface deer God for Christes sake , Then shall their Traitorous Treason slake , Prevent their hope wherein they stay , And disannul their Golden day , Whereof they brag : and make great boast , Of Christ and his to scour the Coast , They trust to tread thy Gospel down , Against our Queen they fret and frown , Thus thine and thee , contemned be , From all such Rebels , England free . And fortify our Queen with grace , That she with sword from hence may chase , all those that have assented : Against thy word and truth to jar , Who seek to raise up Civil war , as people discontented , With thy deer gifts so manifold Which they and we do well behold , Still given by thy good providence , Yet some withstand thy reverence , Thy worship Lord they do disdain , They seek ( as Truth ) Lies to maintain , God grant our Queen may look about , From hence to weed , such Papists stout , Then shall we be , from danger free , Grant heavenly God so it may be . The discord in the North we know , Which through the Poape did spring and grow , was warily prevented : And some that his Advancement sought , A Hempen Hatchet justly caught , Because they so assented : To take the Field against all right Against the Truth and Queen to figh But if thy word and Gospel deer , Had been so taught and preached there As it hath been in London long , They would have shunned such Treason strong , And duly done Obedience : Unto our Queen : with reverence : Whose mercy may : procure alway , Her Subjects Hearts in Truth to stay . Yet many seek for to despise , The Fowntayne , whence such Grace does rise , Our Queen and Sovereign reigning : And up and down they use to go , Like Rebels , Discord for to sow with Lies of their own feigning : What ? does the Princess Curteousie , Of you deserve such Injury ? That such Reward you render now , To her , which so does tender you ? Shall her true love reap such Disdain ? Or think you now as Lords to reign ? Our Queen bears not a Sword for nought Your Duties now you will be taugh I trust her Grace , within short space : All pervers Papists will hence chase . And where as mercy hath been cause , That you transgress her Highness Laws : I trust you shall know truly : That Justice Sword shall cut you short , Which to work mischief think it sport , As Rebels most unruly : Beware therefore , you Papists proved , Which seek in Dens your selves to shroud , To work your wiles as void of fear , In casting Bills now here , now there , Which seems our Queen and Crown to touch And you your selves cannot advouche , The hangman give you not such checks , That Tiburne chance to break your necks , Trust me you may , if you do play , The Rebels thus , you must that way . For when such Wicked plants are gone , Englande shall have no cause to moan , Nor future Foes be doubting : God grant the Sword may shun the Sheathe , And by the Roots such Weeds bereave , For many here are scouting : Who seek as much as ere they may , This little Brittaine to betray : And all because we Christ profess , As present time does prove no less : But God confownde poor Englandes foes And safely keep our Rial Rose : From such as would her highness harm , With NESTORS years her Person arm : Grant her thy Grace , in every place , The force of Rebels to deface . FINIS . John Phillip . Imprinted at London , by William How , for Richard Johnes and are to be sold , at his shop joining to the Southwest door of Paules Church . H : 18329 A Ballad entitled / A cold Pie for the Papists , Wherein is contained : The Trust of true Subjects for suppressing of Seditious Papistry and Rebellion : to the maintenance of the Gospel , and the public Peace of Englande . Made to be song to Lassiamiza Noate . WHat Christian that the Lord does fear , Can sobs & blubbering tears forbear , the time to way uprightly ? To see how subject's Ebb and Flow , Whereby great discord haps to grow , a thing God knows unsightly : Whereby our Queen and Realm we see , By such ( alas ) disquiet be , But God cut short the rage of those , As seek to be their Countries Foes , Beatrice down their brags their boast deface , Unto our Queen Lord grant thy grace , That she the sword from sheath may draw To vanquish such as hate thy law , Then shall we be : from danger free , Grant heavenly God , thus it may be . The careless Crew the shameless Rout , Of Papists proved whose hearts most stout , thy Gospel are disdaining : Who secretly in corners lurk , Much mischief here and there to work , within our land remaining : Deface deer God for Christes sake , Then shall their Traitorous Treason slake , Prevent their hope wherein they stay , And disannul their Golden day , Whereof they brag : and make great boast , Of Christ and his to scour the Coast , They trust to tread thy Gospel down , Against our Queen they fret and frown , Thus thine and thee , contemned be , From all such Rebels , England free . And fortify our Queen with grace , That she with sword from hence may chase , all those that have assented : Against thy word and truth to jar , Who seek to raise up Civil war , as people discontented , With thy deer gifts so manifold Which they and we do well behold , Still given by thy good providence , Yet some withstand thy reverence , Thy worship Lord they do disdain , They seek ( as Truth ) Lies to maintain , God grant our Queen may look about , From hence to weed , such Papists stout , Then shall we be , from danger free , Grant heavenly God so it may be . The discord in the North we know , Which through the Poape did spring and grow , was warily prevented : And some that his Advancement sought , A Hempen Hatchet justly caught , Because they so assented : To take the Field against all right Against the Truth and Queen to figh But if thy word and Gospel deer , Had been so taught and preached there As it hath been in London long , They would have shunned such Treason strong , And duly done Obedience : Unto our Queen : with reverence : Whose mercy may : procure alway , Her Subjects Hearts in Truth to stay . Yet many seek for to despise , The Fowntayne , whence such Grace does rise , Our Queen and Sovereign reigning : And up and down they use to go , Like Rebels , Discord for to sow with Lies of their own feigning : What ? does the Princess Curteousie , Of you deserve such Injury ? That such Reward you render now , To her , which so does tender you ? Shall her true love reap such Disdain ? Or think you now as Lords to reign ? Our Queen bears not a Sword for nought Your Duties now you will be taugh I trust her Grace , within short space : All pervers Papists will hence chase . And where as mercy hath been cause , That you transgress her Highness Laws : I trust you shall know truly : That Justice Sword shall cut you short , Which to work mischief think it sport , As Rebels most unruly : Beware therefore , you Papists proved , Which seek in Dens your selves to shroud , To work your wiles as void of fear , In casting Bills now here , now there , Which seems our Queen and Crown to touch And you your selves cannot advouche , The hangman give you not such checks , That Tiburne chance to break your necks , Trust me you may , if you do play , The Rebels thus , you must that way . For when such Wicked plants are gone , Englande shall have no cause to moan , Nor future Foes be doubting : God grant the Sword may shun the Sheathe , And by the Roots such Weeds bereave , For many here are scouting : Who seek as much as ere they may , This little Brittaine to betray : And all because we Christ profess , As present time does prove no less : But God confownde poor Englandes foes And safely keep our Rial Rose : From such as would her highness harm , With NESTORS years her Person arm : Grant her thy Grace , in every place , The force of Rebels to deface . FINIS . John Phillip . Imprinted at London , by William How , for Richard Johnes and are to be sold , at his shop joining to the Southwest door of Paules Church . 