H : 289753 The Cruel STEP-MOTHER Or , The UNHAPPY SON . YOU most indulgent parents , lend and ear , And you a dismal story soon shall hear ; A story strange , but certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one 'squire Brown , Whose wealth and riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life ; The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleas'd to send them some relief . She did conceive , and with a son , we hear , Great was the joy when she deliver'd were , Much feasting , which for many days did last , Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasures that we hear can boast So sudden fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches , who can shun the dart ? He has command , and strikes up to the heart . The 'squre's lady was took wond'rous ill . The doctors us'd in vain their best of skill . All cannot do , the fatal stroke death gave , And no man that's born her life c [ and ] save . Her husband then she sent for out of hand : Her weeping friends did now around her stand ; Her husband came , she said to him , My dear , The time is short I have to tarry here : Be careful of the darling child your son , See that in virtue' paths he strives to run ; That I in heaven may see him again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake , wed not again , my dear , For if you do , I cannot rest , I fear . Let no stepmother my dear child abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use . My jointure , which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him , whom I love most dear . Be you a tender father to my son , Think on my words , when I am dead and gone . He said , Dearest , these words I'll keep in mind ; I to the child will prove a father kind : To wrong my child , I wrong myself , you know ; I love the child too well to serve it so . Then for her child she straitways did call , While tears from her cheeks down did fallen ; And kissing him with lips as cold as clay , The child did to his fainting mother say , Mamma , what makes you kiss me and cry ? I hope you will be better speedily ; I hope I shall , sweet dear , to him she said , Then turn'd herself , and straightway dy'd . She scarce two months in the grave w [ a ] s laid , Ere he forgotten the promises he made ; Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told ; No rest or quiet would he let her have , Till her consent she unto him had gave . She said , before she to him did engage . She had a daughter fair , ten years of age ; And therefore for her dear daughter's sake , She was resolv'd a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should be made , And in much triumph now these couple wed , But during these things were thus even done , He quite forgotten his daughter and his son . His new wife was cross , and very proud , And his own son never was allowed With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman , waiting her command . Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is ea Beside a waiting maid too miss must have . While the poor lad is made a drudge and slave . Altho' he was thus scorn'd , yet we find How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left this boy two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have , For to maintain the child so fine and brave ; But if he died ere to age he came , His father then was to enjoy the same . His stepmother found things were ordered so , She was resolv'd to work his overthrow , Cries she , When he is put away and gone , What's left to him will soon become my own . She with the Devil then did straightway think , And to her husband gave a sleeping drink ; And as he within the garden lay Unto the boy she these words did say , Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if thou see'st him wake , or going to rise , Come and show me , make the best haste you can . And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep , Then softly she did to his father creep ; Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For as the innocent boy a sleeping lay , She in his pocket did the ring convey ; Then with great joy into the house did come : And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking , strait did rub his eyes , But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run , Meanwhile his father in a-doors did come . And missing of his ring to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away Cries she , I took it not upon my life ; You may blieve me , as I am your wife . But if you'd know what is of it become , I'd have you to examine well your son : As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him then a-fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot straightway him he bound , And lash'd him till the blood did run , While she , hard hearted wretch ! stood gazing on . Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he does disgrace the family . I'll get a master soon for him , she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide . He gave consent , and she a master god ; And he was sent away , hard was his lot , Where we will leave him to cross the main , And turn to this wicked wretch again , But God , who sees our actions here below , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go For this boys mother to them did appear , One night when they in bed together were . This apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in every thing ; Then did she shake the bed whereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The 'squire he was very much surpriz'd , And finding that his wife had told h [ i ] m lies , To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despar they say . To add unto his grief we understand , A letter from his son came to his hand : At Jamaica he was , the le [ tO ] ter told , And to a captain [ a ] in there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were ta'en : The ship condemn'd , and they were m [ a ] de slaves . This is , kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father seeing that [ i ] s , swooned away , Crying to his wife both n [ i ] ght and day , Thou cursed wretch what hast thou now done , To make a father thus abuse h [ i ] s son ? From home in grief he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Made strait his w [ i ] ll , and left his son his store , Then went and hang'd himself before his door , The lawyer finding what he had done , Did stra [ i ] tway send a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed ; And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid , and quickly was reliev'd ; He god a ship , and home with speed he came . None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home , unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flatt'ring lies Would fain excuse herself ; but all in vain : To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her ; five hundred pounds beside , Because he basely was by her bely'd . Which vex'd her so , it almost broke her heart , To think she with her ill-got gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despis'd by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had , and went away , And has not been herd of to this day . To stepmothers let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly . For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless . Let parents all beg of the Lord to see Their children bred up to maturity . 'Till for themselves they're able to provide . Lord send you may be their faithful guide . H : 289753 The Cruel STEP-MOTHER Or , The UNHAPPY SON . YOU most indulgent parents , lend and ear , And you a dismal story soon shall hear ; A story strange , but certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one 'squire Brown , Whose wealth and riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life ; The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleas'd to send them some relief . She did conceive , and with a son , we hear , Great was the joy when she deliver'd were , Much feasting , which for many days did last , Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasures that we hear can boast So sudden fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches , who can shun the dart ? He has command , and strikes up to the heart . The 'squre's lady was took wond'rous ill . The doctors us'd in vain their best of skill . All cannot do , the fatal stroke death gave , And no man that's born her life c [ and ] save . Her husband then she sent for out of hand : Her weeping friends did now around her stand ; Her husband came , she said to him , My dear , The time is short I have to tarry here : Be careful of the darling child your son , See that in virtue' paths he strives to run ; That I in heaven may see him again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake , wed not again , my dear , For if you do , I cannot rest , I fear . Let no stepmother my dear child abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use . My jointure , which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him , whom I love most dear . Be you a tender father to my son , Think on my words , when I am dead and gone . He said , Dearest , these words I'll keep in mind ; I to the child will prove a father kind : To wrong my child , I wrong myself , you know ; I love the child too well to serve it so . Then for her child she straitways did call , While tears from her cheeks down did fallen ; And kissing him with lips as cold as clay , The child did to his fainting mother say , Mamma , what makes you kiss me and cry ? I hope you will be better speedily ; I hope I shall , sweet dear , to him she said , Then turn'd herself , and straightway dy'd . She scarce two months in the grave w [ a ] s laid , Ere he forgotten the promises he made ; Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told ; No rest or quiet would he let her have , Till her consent she unto him had gave . She said , before she to him did engage . She had a daughter fair , ten years of age ; And therefore for her dear daughter's sake , She was resolv'd a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should be made , And in much triumph now these couple wed , But during these things were thus even done , He quite forgotten his daughter and his son . His new wife was cross , and very proud , And his own son never was allowed With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman , waiting her command . Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is ea Beside a waiting maid too miss must have . While the poor lad is made a drudge and slave . Altho' he was thus scorn'd , yet we find How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left this boy two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have , For to maintain the child so fine and brave ; But if he died ere to age he came , His father then was to enjoy the same . His stepmother found things were ordered so , She was resolv'd to work his overthrow , Cries she , When he is put away and gone , What's left to him will soon become my own . She with the Devil then did straightway think , And to her husband gave a sleeping drink ; And as he within the garden lay Unto the boy she these words did say , Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if thou see'st him wake , or going to rise , Come and show me , make the best haste you can . And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep , Then softly she did to his father creep ; Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For as the innocent boy a sleeping lay , She in his pocket did the ring convey ; Then with great joy into the house did come : And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking , strait did rub his eyes , But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run , Meanwhile his father in a-doors did come . And missing of his ring to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away Cries she , I took it not upon my life ; You may blieve me , as I am your wife . But if you'd know what is of it become , I'd have you to examine well your son : As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him then a-fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot straightway him he bound , And lash'd him till the blood did run , While she , hard hearted wretch ! stood gazing on . Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he does disgrace the family . I'll get a master soon for him , she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide . He gave consent , and she a master god ; And he was sent away , hard was his lot , Where we will leave him to cross the main , And turn to this wicked wretch again , But God , who sees our actions here below , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go For this boys mother to them did appear , One night when they in bed together were . This apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in every thing ; Then did she shake the bed whereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The 'squire he was very much surpriz'd , And finding that his wife had told h [ i ] m lies , To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despar they say . To add unto his grief we understand , A letter from his son came to his hand : At Jamaica he was , the le [ tO ] ter told , And to a captain [ a ] in there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were ta'en : The ship condemn'd , and they were m [ a ] de slaves . This is , kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father seeing that [ i ] s , swooned away , Crying to his wife both n [ i ] ght and day , Thou cursed wretch what hast thou now done , To make a father thus abuse h [ i ] s son ? From home in grief he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Made strait his w [ i ] ll , and left his son his store , Then went and hang'd himself before his door , The lawyer finding what he had done , Did stra [ i ] tway send a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed ; And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid , and quickly was reliev'd ; He god a ship , and home with speed he came . None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home , unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flatt'ring lies Would fain excuse herself ; but all in vain : To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her ; five hundred pounds beside , Because he basely was by her bely'd . Which vex'd her so , it almost broke her heart , To think she with her ill-got gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despis'd by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had , and went away , And has not been herd of to this day . To stepmothers let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly . For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless . Let parents all beg of the Lord to see Their children bred up to maturity . 'Till for themselves they're able to provide . Lord send you may be their faithful guide . H : 289753 The Cruel STEP-MOTHER Or , The UNHAPPY SON . YOU most indulgent parents , lend and ear , And you a dismal story soon shall hear ; A story strange , but certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one 'squire Brown , Whose wealth and riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life ; The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleas'd to send them some relief . She did conceive , and with a son , we hear , Great was the joy when she deliver'd were , Much feasting , which for many days did last , Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasures that we hear can boast So sudden fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches , who can shun the dart ? He has command , and strikes up to the heart . The 'squre's lady was took wond'rous ill . The doctors us'd in vain their best of skill . All cannot do , the fatal stroke death gave , And no man that's born her life c [ and ] save . Her husband then she sent for out of hand : Her weeping friends did now around her stand ; Her husband came , she said to him , My dear , The time is short I have to tarry here : Be careful of the darling child your son , See that in virtue' paths he strives to run ; That I in heaven may see him again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake , wed not again , my dear , For if you do , I cannot rest , I fear . Let no stepmother my dear child abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use . My jointure , which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him , whom I love most dear . Be you a tender father to my son , Think on my words , when I am dead and gone . He said , Dearest , these words I'll keep in mind ; I to the child will prove a father kind : To wrong my child , I wrong myself , you know ; I love the child too well to serve it so . Then for her child she straitways did call , While tears from her cheeks down did fallen ; And kissing him with lips as cold as clay , The child did to his fainting mother say , Mamma , what makes you kiss me and cry ? I hope you will be better speedily ; I hope I shall , sweet dear , to him she said , Then turn'd herself , and straightway dy'd . She scarce two months in the grave w [ a ] s laid , Ere he forgotten the promises he made ; Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told ; No rest or quiet would he let her have , Till her consent she unto him had gave . She said , before she to him did engage . She had a daughter fair , ten years of age ; And therefore for her dear daughter's sake , She was resolv'd a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should be made , And in much triumph now these couple wed , But during these things were thus even done , He quite forgotten his daughter and his son . His new wife was cross , and very proud , And his own son never was allowed With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman , waiting her command . Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is ea Beside a waiting maid too miss must have . While the poor lad is made a drudge and slave . Altho' he was thus scorn'd , yet we find How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left this boy two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have , For to maintain the child so fine and brave ; But if he died ere to age he came , His father then was to enjoy the same . His stepmother found things were ordered so , She was resolv'd to work his overthrow , Cries she , When he is put away and gone , What's left to him will soon become my own . She with the Devil then did straightway think , And to her husband gave a sleeping drink ; And as he within the garden lay Unto the boy she these words did say , Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if thou see'st him wake , or going to rise , Come and show me , make the best haste you can . And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep , Then softly she did to his father creep ; Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For as the innocent boy a sleeping lay , She in his pocket did the ring convey ; Then with great joy into the house did come : And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking , strait did rub his eyes , But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run , Meanwhile his father in a-doors did come . And missing of his ring to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away Cries she , I took it not upon my life ; You may blieve me , as I am your wife . But if you'd know what is of it become , I'd have you to examine well your son : As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him then a-fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot straightway him he bound , And lash'd him till the blood did run , While she , hard hearted wretch ! stood gazing on . Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he does disgrace the family . I'll get a master soon for him , she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide . He gave consent , and she a master god ; And he was sent away , hard was his lot , Where we will leave him to cross the main , And turn to this wicked wretch again , But God , who sees our actions here below , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go For this boys mother to them did appear , One night when they in bed together were . This apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in every thing ; Then did she shake the bed whereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The 'squire he was very much surpriz'd , And finding that his wife had told h [ i ] m lies , To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despar they say . To add unto his grief we understand , A letter from his son came to his hand : At Jamaica he was , the le [ tO ] ter told , And to a captain [ a ] in there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were ta'en : The ship condemn'd , and they were m [ a ] de slaves . This is , kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father seeing that [ i ] s , swooned away , Crying to his wife both n [ i ] ght and day , Thou cursed wretch what hast thou now done , To make a father thus abuse h [ i ] s son ? From home in grief he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Made strait his w [ i ] ll , and left his son his store , Then went and hang'd himself before his door , The lawyer finding what he had done , Did stra [ i ] tway send a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed ; And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid , and quickly was reliev'd ; He god a ship , and home with speed he came . None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home , unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flatt'ring lies Would fain excuse herself ; but all in vain : To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her ; five hundred pounds beside , Because he basely was by her bely'd . Which vex'd her so , it almost broke her heart , To think she with her ill-got gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despis'd by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had , and went away , And has not been herd of to this day . To stepmothers let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly . For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless . Let parents all beg of the Lord to see Their children bred up to maturity . 'Till for themselves they're able to provide . Lord send you may be their faithful guide . H : 289753 The Cruel STEP-MOTHER Or , The UNHAPPY SON . YOU most indulgent parents , lend and ear , And you a dismal story soon shall hear ; A story strange , but certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one 'squire Brown , Whose wealth and riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life ; The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleas'd to send them some relief . She did conceive , and with a son , we hear , Great was the joy when she deliver'd were , Much feasting , which for many days did last , Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasures that we hear can boast So sudden fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches , who can shun the dart ? He has command , and strikes up to the heart . The 'squre's lady was took wond'rous ill . The doctors us'd in vain their best of skill . All cannot do , the fatal stroke death gave , And no man that's born her life c [ and ] save . Her husband then she sent for out of hand : Her weeping friends did now around her stand ; Her husband came , she said to him , My dear , The time is short I have to tarry here : Be careful of the darling child your son , See that in virtue' paths he strives to run ; That I in heaven may see him again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake , wed not again , my dear , For if you do , I cannot rest , I fear . Let no stepmother my dear child abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use . My jointure , which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him , whom I love most dear . Be you a tender father to my son , Think on my words , when I am dead and gone . He said , Dearest , these words I'll keep in mind ; I to the child will prove a father kind : To wrong my child , I wrong myself , you know ; I love the child too well to serve it so . Then for her child she straitways did call , While tears from her cheeks down did fallen ; And kissing him with lips as cold as clay , The child did to his fainting mother say , Mamma , what makes you kiss me and cry ? I hope you will be better speedily ; I hope I shall , sweet dear , to him she said , Then turn'd herself , and straightway dy'd . She scarce two months in the grave w [ a ] s laid , Ere he forgotten the promises he made ; Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told ; No rest or quiet would he let her have , Till her consent she unto him had gave . She said , before she to him did engage . She had a daughter fair , ten years of age ; And therefore for her dear daughter's sake , She was resolv'd a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should be made , And in much triumph now these couple wed , But during these things were thus even done , He quite forgotten his daughter and his son . His new wife was cross , and very proud , And his own son never was allowed With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman , waiting her command . Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is ea Beside a waiting maid too miss must have . While the poor lad is made a drudge and slave . Altho' he was thus scorn'd , yet we find How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left this boy two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have , For to maintain the child so fine and brave ; But if he died ere to age he came , His father then was to enjoy the same . His stepmother found things were ordered so , She was resolv'd to work his overthrow , Cries she , When he is put away and gone , What's left to him will soon become my own . She with the Devil then did straightway think , And to her husband gave a sleeping drink ; And as he within the garden lay Unto the boy she these words did say , Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if thou see'st him wake , or going to rise , Come and show me , make the best haste you can . And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep , Then softly she did to his father creep ; Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For as the innocent boy a sleeping lay , She in his pocket did the ring convey ; Then with great joy into the house did come : And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking , strait did rub his eyes , But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run , Meanwhile his father in a-doors did come . And missing of his ring to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away Cries she , I took it not upon my life ; You may blieve me , as I am your wife . But if you'd know what is of it become , I'd have you to examine well your son : As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him then a-fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot straightway him he bound , And lash'd him till the blood did run , While she , hard hearted wretch ! stood gazing on . Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he does disgrace the family . I'll get a master soon for him , she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide . He gave consent , and she a master god ; And he was sent away , hard was his lot , Where we will leave him to cross the main , And turn to this wicked wretch again , But God , who sees our actions here below , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go For this boys mother to them did appear , One night when they in bed together were . This apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in every thing ; Then did she shake the bed whereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The 'squire he was very much surpriz'd , And finding that his wife had told h [ i ] m lies , To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despar they say . To add unto his grief we understand , A letter from his son came to his hand : At Jamaica he was , the le [ tO ] ter told , And to a captain [ a ] in there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were ta'en : The ship condemn'd , and they were m [ a ] de slaves . This is , kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father seeing that [ i ] s , swooned away , Crying to his wife both n [ i ] ght and day , Thou cursed wretch what hast thou now done , To make a father thus abuse h [ i ] s son ? From home in grief he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Made strait his w [ i ] ll , and left his son his store , Then went and hang'd himself before his door , The lawyer finding what he had done , Did stra [ i ] tway send a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed ; And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid , and quickly was reliev'd ; He god a ship , and home with speed he came . None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home , unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flatt'ring lies Would fain excuse herself ; but all in vain : To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her ; five hundred pounds beside , Because he basely was by her bely'd . Which vex'd her so , it almost broke her heart , To think she with her ill-got gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despis'd by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had , and went away , And has not been herd of to this day . To stepmothers let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly . For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless . Let parents all beg of the Lord to see Their children bred up to maturity . 'Till for themselves they're able to provide . Lord send you may be their faithful guide . 