H : 289744 The Unnatural FATHER : Or , The Dutiful SON's Reward . PART I . HERE is a looking-glass for children dear , A looking-glass I say , therefore draw near , And view the mercies which the lord extends To those that are obedient to their friends . If parents do the thing that is not right , Setting their hearts , their loves , and whole delight , Upon one child , and eke the other wrong . Trust in the Lord , whose hand and arm is strong . In his due time he will these things redress . He never leaves his servants comfortless . As by this true reltion you may find . If you his works of providence will mind . In Dorsetshir a wealthy man of late . Two sons he had , likewise a vast estate . The one he loved with affection pure , The other son he never could endure . But kept him meaner then the vilest slave , And often wish'd him in the silent grave . As they at each time then at variance fell , But for what reason none alive can tell . A more obedient son was seldom seen . Modest in carriage , of a genteel mein . Yet ne'ertheless his father did him slight , And never could endure him in his sighed . Or if he did he'd frown upon him still , No peace , no joy , no love , or kind goodwill Could he receive from his father's hands . Who strove to cut him off from all his lands . Many a stroke and heavy blow he felt , Which often caus'd his youthful eye to melt Into a flood of sad lamenting tears . Thus he with patience suffer'd many years . The darling son was cloath'd in rich array , And often did his gaudy plumes display . Making his father's gold and silver fly , Like summer's dust , in jovial company . While he was thus supported in his pride , The other son was scorn'd and villify'd . And by his father often spurn'd and beatrice . Who seemed then to grudge the bred he eat . Father , said he , what is the cause of this ? If I have acted anything amiss , Tell me my fault , and I will surely mend , For loath I am my parents to offend . At this his father's wrath increased more , And with these words he thrust him out of door , Go take your lot beyond the ocean main , And never let me see your face again . The son he little said , but did part From friends and father with a heavy heart . Encompass'd round with sorrow , grief , and care , To seek his fortune , but he knew not where . Poor heart , when this unhappy chance did fallen , He nothing had then to subsist withal . Yet carefully he travell'd all the day , And then at night upon cold earth he lay . Next morning sleeping on the rural plain , He was awaken'd by a shepherd swain , Who came that way , and having herd his grief , Out of his scrip he give him some relief . This done , in humble sort he took his leave , With many thanks for what he did receive . And so went on to famous London-town . Where for a time he wander'd up and down . And wanting friends on board he went at last , Over the roaring ocean wide he passed . Where we will leave him to God's providence , And show the other brother's insolence . PART II WHEN parents dote upon a certain child , He often proves reverse , stubborn , and wild ; And brings them to the greatest sorrow here , As from this late account it will appear . One of his sons thus gone beyond the seas , The other with his parents liv'd at ease . Until by fruits of sinful wantonness His family was brought to great distress . As you shall hear , for many pounds he spent Among the taverns which he did frequent , Where for a harlot's sake , a man he kill'd , And therefore was in chains and fetters held At Dorchester , in order to be try'd . His father hearing of the news reply'd , He shall not die , and go down to the grave , If all that e'er I have his life can save . To one in town he mortgag'd all his land , Raising five hundred pound then out of land , To keep his darling son from dismal thrall , But yet , dear loving friends , this is not all : For he once more did violate the laws , And was transported for that very cause , From Dorchester , over the raging main , Never to see his native land again , His aged father did in tears lament , His land was mortgag'd , and his money spent Upon their wicked child , which griev'd them soar , Beside he ow'd two hundred pounds or more . For which he could no satisfaction make , Wherefore to jail they did this body take . In tears he wept , beseeching for relief , His chief companion that he had was grief . His downy Beds were turned to Bed of Straw , No comfortable friend alive he saw . For want of food he daily did repine . And tears of woe did serve instead of wine . With wringing hands he said , What have I done ? How have I wrong'd my well-beloving son ? My son that was endow'd with Christian grace , To succour him that brought me to this place . With these and many more lamenting cries , Distilled tears did trickle down his eyes . Where we will leave him in that sad distress , To show the slighted son's true happiness . PART III . NOW having treated of his grief and woe , As he from time to time did undergo , I come to show you how God's blessed hand Restor'd him from a prison to his land . Behold , that son so scorn'd and slighted here , In his distress kind providence did steer . From London-city to the Golden-shore . Where God for him a blessing had in store . For process of time behold he found A wealthy fortune worth ten thousand pound . A virtuous wife , most beautiful and fair , And had some thoughts to live and settle there . But each night he was so disturb'd in mind , No ease nor satisfaction could he find . But still he dream'd most of his friends were dead , And that his aged father begg'd his bred . Being disturb'd with his nocturnal thought , His loving wife , with all his wealth , he brought Over the ocean to fair Weymouth-town , Appearing like some persons of renown . Then to his father's house he did repair , And finding nothing else but strangers there , Concern'd he was , so was his lady too , Supposing that his former dreams were true . When meeting with and ancient gentleman , He said , Kind sir , do tell me if you can , What is become of such a family ? Fetching a sighs , to him he did reply , The darling son whom he did so adore , Has brought his aged father to be poor By his unparallell'd sad villainies ; And now for debt in Dorset-jail he lies . At this sad news his eyes did overflow , And said , My loving lady , let us go And see my aged father in distress . Alas ! I cannot leave him comfortless . Then coming to the prison , he beheld His aged father dear with sorrow fill'd . Clothed in rags , lean skin , and hollow eyes , Having no food his hunger to suffice . The young man's bowels yern'd , his heart did bleed , Said he , Old father , tell me now with speed How long you have been close confined here , It this sad place of sorrow so severe ? Right worthy sir , the aged man reply'd , Your kind request shall soon be satisfy'd , So he began and told him all his grief , And how his son had been the cause in chief . Had you no other son , said he , I pray ? Yes , sir , but him I forc'd away . One that was loving , courteous , kind and m No father could enjoy a sweeter child . But to my sorrow , here I must confess , I loved him that brought me to distress . The other I would not one smile allow , And so the hand of God is on me now . And is the mother of your sons alive ? No , no , sir , she did not long survive , After the sad departure of the first , With utmost grief her tender heart did burst . For having sought her son both far and near , And could of him no tidings hear , Home she return'd , with tears took to her bed , And never after would be comforted . The young man's heart was full , he could not speak Therefore he did a private corner take , To weep his fill , and ease his soul of care , Which done , in jail a feast he did prepare . And call'd his aged father to the same ; Who cring'd and bow'd before him as he came . The young man said , Sure this may not be done Be cover'd , father , for I am your son ; That very son whom you forced away . Your lands I will redeem , your debts I'll pay , And prove a blessing to your ancient days . Dry up your tears , your fainting spirits raise . Art thou my son whom I so long withstood Art thou alive to do thy father good Blessed be God , this news does cheer my heart Thy duty is much more than my desert . O say not so , my aged father dear , Who serve the Lord with a religious fear Must hH : 289744 The Unnatural FATHER : Or , The Dutiful SON's Reward . PART I . HERE is a looking-glass for children dear , A looking-glass I say , therefore draw near , And view the mercies which the lord extends To those that are obedient to their friends . If parents do the thing that is not right , Setting their hearts , their loves , and whole delight , Upon one child , and eke the other wrong . Trust in the Lord , whose hand and arm is strong . In his due time he will these things redress . He never leaves his servants comfortless . As by this true reltion you may find . If you his works of providence will mind . In Dorsetshir a wealthy man of late . Two sons he had , likewise a vast estate . The one he loved with affection pure , The other son he never could endure . But kept him meaner then the vilest slave , And often wish'd him in the silent grave . As they at each time then at variance fell , But for what reason none alive can tell . A more obedient son was seldom seen . Modest in carriage , of a genteel mein . Yet ne'ertheless his father did him slight , And never could endure him in his sighed . Or if he did he'd frown upon him still , No peace , no joy , no love , or kind goodwill Could he receive from his father's hands . Who strove to cut him off from all his lands . Many a stroke and heavy blow he felt , Which often caus'd his youthful eye to melt Into a flood of sad lamenting tears . Thus he with patience suffer'd many years . The darling son was cloath'd in rich array , And often did his gaudy plumes display . Making his father's gold and silver fly , Like summer's dust , in jovial company . While he was thus supported in his pride , The other son was scorn'd and villify'd . And by his father often spurn'd and beatrice . Who seemed then to grudge the bred he eat . Father , said he , what is the cause of this ? If I have acted anything amiss , Tell me my fault , and I will surely mend , For loath I am my parents to offend . At this his father's wrath increased more , And with these words he thrust him out of door , Go take your lot beyond the ocean main , And never let me see your face again . The son he little said , but did part From friends and father with a heavy heart . Encompass'd round with sorrow , grief , and care , To seek his fortune , but he knew not where . Poor heart , when this unhappy chance did fallen , He nothing had then to subsist withal . Yet carefully he travell'd all the day , And then at night upon cold earth he lay . Next morning sleeping on the rural plain , He was awaken'd by a shepherd swain , Who came that way , and having herd his grief , Out of his scrip he give him some relief . This done , in humble sort he took his leave , With many thanks for what he did receive . And so went on to famous London-town . Where for a time he wander'd up and down . And wanting friends on board he went at last , Over the roaring ocean wide he passed . Where we will leave him to God's providence , And show the other brother's insolence . PART II WHEN parents dote upon a certain child , He often proves reverse , stubborn , and wild ; And brings them to the greatest sorrow here , As from this late account it will appear . One of his sons thus gone beyond the seas , The other with his parents liv'd at ease . Until by fruits of sinful wantonness His family was brought to great distress . As you shall hear , for many pounds he spent Among the taverns which he did frequent , Where for a harlot's sake , a man he kill'd , And therefore was in chains and fetters held At Dorchester , in order to be try'd . His father hearing of the news reply'd , He shall not die , and go down to the grave , If all that e'er I have his life can save . To one in town he mortgag'd all his land , Raising five hundred pound then out of land , To keep his darling son from dismal thrall , But yet , dear loving friends , this is not all : For he once more did violate the laws , And was transported for that very cause , From Dorchester , over the raging main , Never to see his native land again , His aged father did in tears lament , His land was mortgag'd , and his money spent Upon their wicked child , which griev'd them soar , Beside he ow'd two hundred pounds or more . For which he could no satisfaction make , Wherefore to jail they did this body take . In tears he wept , beseeching for relief , His chief companion that he had was grief . His downy Beds were turned to Bed of Straw , No comfortable friend alive he saw . For want of food he daily did repine . And tears of woe did serve instead of wine . With wringing hands he said , What have I done ? How have I wrong'd my well-beloving son ? My son that was endow'd with Christian grace , To succour him that brought me to this place . With these and many more lamenting cries , Distilled tears did trickle down his eyes . Where we will leave him in that sad distress , To show the slighted son's true happiness . PART III . NOW having treated of his grief and woe , As he from time to time did undergo , I come to show you how God's blessed hand Restor'd him from a prison to his land . Behold , that son so scorn'd and slighted here , In his distress kind providence did steer . From London-city to the Golden-shore . Where God for him a blessing had in store . For process of time behold he found A wealthy fortune worth ten thousand pound . A virtuous wife , most beautiful and fair , And had some thoughts to live and settle there . But each night he was so disturb'd in mind , No ease nor satisfaction could he find . But still he dream'd most of his friends were dead , And that his aged father begg'd his bred . Being disturb'd with his nocturnal thought , His loving wife , with all his wealth , he brought Over the ocean to fair Weymouth-town , Appearing like some persons of renown . Then to his father's house he did repair , And finding nothing else but strangers there , Concern'd he was , so was his lady too , Supposing that his former dreams were true . When meeting with and ancient gentleman , He said , Kind sir , do tell me if you can , What is become of such a family ? Fetching a sighs , to him he did reply , The darling son whom he did so adore , Has brought his aged father to be poor By his unparallell'd sad villainies ; And now for debt in Dorset-jail he lies . At this sad news his eyes did overflow , And said , My loving lady , let us go And see my aged father in distress . Alas ! I cannot leave him comfortless . Then coming to the prison , he beheld His aged father dear with sorrow fill'd . Clothed in rags , lean skin , and hollow eyes , Having no food his hunger to suffice . The young man's bowels yern'd , his heart did bleed , Said he , Old father , tell me now with speed How long you have been close confined here , It this sad place of sorrow so severe ? Right worthy sir , the aged man reply'd , Your kind request shall soon be satisfy'd , So he began and told him all his grief , And how his son had been the cause in chief . Had you no other son , said he , I pray ? Yes , sir , but him I forc'd away . One that was loving , courteous , kind and m No father could enjoy a sweeter child . But to my sorrow , here I must confess , I loved him that brought me to distress . The other I would not one smile allow , And so the hand of God is on me now . And is the mother of your sons alive ? No , no , sir , she did not long survive , After the sad departure of the first , With utmost grief her tender heart did burst . For having sought her son both far and near , And could of him no tidings hear , Home she return'd , with tears took to her bed , And never after would be comforted . The young man's heart was full , he could not speak Therefore he did a private corner take , To weep his fill , and ease his soul of care , Which done , in jail a feast he did prepare . And call'd his aged father to the same ; Who cring'd and bow'd before him as he came . The young man said , Sure this may not be done Be cover'd , father , for I am your son ; That very son whom you forced away . Your lands I will redeem , your debts I'll pay , And prove a blessing to your ancient days . Dry up your tears , your fainting spirits raise . Art thou my son whom I so long withstood Art thou alive to do thy father good Blessed be God , this news does cheer my heart Thy duty is much more than my desert . O say not so , my aged father dear , Who serve the Lord with a religious fear Must honour parents dear , for conscience sake , Or sure I am a great command they break . I have been harsh and most severe to thee And turn'd thee out in thy minority To seek thy fortune ; this I must confess . How can you pity me in my distress ? In duty , father , I can all forgive . And further , while I have a day to live , What I have promised I'll surely do . The Lord hath prosper'd me to comfort you Soon after this , they from the prison go , He cloath'd his father from the top to toe ; And plac'd him in his happy state once more , For which he gain'd the love of rich and poor . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . onour parents dear , for conscience sake , Or sure I am a great command they break . I have been harsh and most severe to thee And turn'd thee out in thy minority To seek thy fortune ; this I must confess . How can you pity me in my distress ? In duty , father , I can all forgive . And further , while I have a day to live , What I have promised I'll surely do . The Lord hath prosper'd me to comfort you Soon after this , they from the prison go , He cloath'd his father from the top to toe ; And plac'd him in his happy state once more , For which he gain'd the love of rich and poor . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . H : 289744 The Unnatural FATHER : Or , The Dutiful SON's Reward . PART I . HERE is a looking-glass for children dear , A looking-glass I say , therefore draw near , And view the mercies which the lord extends To those that are obedient to their friends . If parents do the thing that is not right , Setting their hearts , their loves , and whole delight , Upon one child , and eke the other wrong . Trust in the Lord , whose hand and arm is strong . In his due time he will these things redress . He never leaves his servants comfortless . As by this true reltion you may find . If you his works of providence will mind . In Dorsetshir a wealthy man of late . Two sons he had , likewise a vast estate . The one he loved with affection pure , The other son he never could endure . But kept him meaner then the vilest slave , And often wish'd him in the silent grave . As they at each time then at variance fell , But for what reason none alive can tell . A more obedient son was seldom seen . Modest in carriage , of a genteel mein . Yet ne'ertheless his father did him slight , And never could endure him in his sighed . Or if he did he'd frown upon him still , No peace , no joy , no love , or kind goodwill Could he receive from his father's hands . Who strove to cut him off from all his lands . Many a stroke and heavy blow he felt , Which often caus'd his youthful eye to melt Into a flood of sad lamenting tears . Thus he with patience suffer'd many years . The darling son was cloath'd in rich array , And often did his gaudy plumes display . Making his father's gold and silver fly , Like summer's dust , in jovial company . While he was thus supported in his pride , The other son was scorn'd and villify'd . And by his father often spurn'd and beatrice . Who seemed then to grudge the bred he eat . Father , said he , what is the cause of this ? If I have acted anything amiss , Tell me my fault , and I will surely mend , For loath I am my parents to offend . At this his father's wrath increased more , And with these words he thrust him out of door , Go take your lot beyond the ocean main , And never let me see your face again . The son he little said , but did part From friends and father with a heavy heart . Encompass'd round with sorrow , grief , and care , To seek his fortune , but he knew not where . Poor heart , when this unhappy chance did fallen , He nothing had then to subsist withal . Yet carefully he travell'd all the day , And then at night upon cold earth he lay . Next morning sleeping on the rural plain , He was awaken'd by a shepherd swain , Who came that way , and having herd his grief , Out of his scrip he give him some relief . This done , in humble sort he took his leave , With many thanks for what he did receive . And so went on to famous London-town . Where for a time he wander'd up and down . And wanting friends on board he went at last , Over the roaring ocean wide he passed . Where we will leave him to God's providence , And show the other brother's insolence . PART II WHEN parents dote upon a certain child , He often proves reverse , stubborn , and wild ; And brings them to the greatest sorrow here , As from this late account it will appear . One of his sons thus gone beyond the seas , The other with his parents liv'd at ease . Until by fruits of sinful wantonness His family was brought to great distress . As you shall hear , for many pounds he spent Among the taverns which he did frequent , Where for a harlot's sake , a man he kill'd , And therefore was in chains and fetters held At Dorchester , in order to be try'd . His father hearing of the news reply'd , He shall not die , and go down to the grave , If all that e'er I have his life can save . To one in town he mortgag'd all his land , Raising five hundred pound then out of land , To keep his darling son from dismal thrall , But yet , dear loving friends , this is not all : For he once more did violate the laws , And was transported for that very cause , From Dorchester , over the raging main , Never to see his native land again , His aged father did in tears lament , His land was mortgag'd , and his money spent Upon their wicked child , which griev'd them soar , Beside he ow'd two hundred pounds or more . For which he could no satisfaction make , Wherefore to jail they did this body take . In tears he wept , beseeching for relief , His chief companion that he had was grief . His downy Beds were turned to Bed of Straw , No comfortable friend alive he saw . For want of food he daily did repine . And tears of woe did serve instead of wine . With wringing hands he said , What have I done ? How have I wrong'd my well-beloving son ? My son that was endow'd with Christian grace , To succour him that brought me to this place . With these and many more lamenting cries , Distilled tears did trickle down his eyes . Where we will leave him in that sad distress , To show the slighted son's true happiness . PART III . NOW having treated of his grief and woe , As he from time to time did undergo , I come to show you how God's blessed hand Restor'd him from a prison to his land . Behold , that son so scorn'd and slighted here , In his distress kind providence did steer . From London-city to the Golden-shore . Where God for him a blessing had in store . For process of time behold he found A wealthy fortune worth ten thousand pound . A virtuous wife , most beautiful and fair , And had some thoughts to live and settle there . But each night he was so disturb'd in mind , No ease nor satisfaction could he find . But still he dream'd most of his friends were dead , And that his aged father begg'd his bred . Being disturb'd with his nocturnal thought , His loving wife , with all his wealth , he brought Over the ocean to fair Weymouth-town , Appearing like some persons of renown . Then to his father's house he did repair , And finding nothing else but strangers there , Concern'd he was , so was his lady too , Supposing that his former dreams were true . When meeting with and ancient gentleman , He said , Kind sir , do tell me if you can , What is become of such a family ? Fetching a sighs , to him he did reply , The darling son whom he did so adore , Has brought his aged father to be poor By his unparallell'd sad villainies ; And now for debt in Dorset-jail he lies . At this sad news his eyes did overflow , And said , My loving lady , let us go And see my aged father in distress . Alas ! I cannot leave him comfortless . Then coming to the prison , he beheld His aged father dear with sorrow fill'd . Clothed in rags , lean skin , and hollow eyes , Having no food his hunger to suffice . The young man's bowels yern'd , his heart did bleed , Said he , Old father , tell me now with speed How long you have been close confined here , It this sad place of sorrow so severe ? Right worthy sir , the aged man reply'd , Your kind request shall soon be satisfy'd , So he began and told him all his grief , And how his son had been the cause in chief . Had you no other son , said he , I pray ? Yes , sir , but him I forc'd away . One that was loving , courteous , kind and m No father could enjoy a sweeter child . But to my sorrow , here I must confess , I loved him that brought me to distress . The other I would not one smile allow , And so the hand of God is on me now . And is the mother of your sons alive ? No , no , sir , she did not long survive , After the sad departure of the first , With utmost grief her tender heart did burst . For having sought her son both far and near , And could of him no tidings hear , Home she return'd , with tears took to her bed , And never after would be comforted . The young man's heart was full , he could not speak Therefore he did a private corner take , To weep his fill , and ease his soul of care , Which done , in jail a feast he did prepare . And call'd his aged father to the same ; Who cring'd and bow'd before him as he came . The young man said , Sure this may not be done Be cover'd , father , for I am your son ; That very son whom you forced away . Your lands I will redeem , your debts I'll pay , And prove a blessing to your ancient days . Dry up your tears , your fainting spirits raise . Art thou my son whom I so long withstood Art thou alive to do thy father good Blessed be God , this news does cheer my heart Thy duty is much more than my desert . O say not so , my aged father dear , Who serve the Lord with a religious fear Must hH : 289744 The Unnatural FATHER : Or , The Dutiful SON's Reward . PART I . HERE is a looking-glass for children dear , A looking-glass I say , therefore draw near , And view the mercies which the lord extends To those that are obedient to their friends . If parents do the thing that is not right , Setting their hearts , their loves , and whole delight , Upon one child , and eke the other wrong . Trust in the Lord , whose hand and arm is strong . In his due time he will these things redress . He never leaves his servants comfortless . As by this true reltion you may find . If you his works of providence will mind . In Dorsetshir a wealthy man of late . Two sons he had , likewise a vast estate . The one he loved with affection pure , The other son he never could endure . But kept him meaner then the vilest slave , And often wish'd him in the silent grave . As they at each time then at variance fell , But for what reason none alive can tell . A more obedient son was seldom seen . Modest in carriage , of a genteel mein . Yet ne'ertheless his father did him slight , And never could endure him in his sighed . Or if he did he'd frown upon him still , No peace , no joy , no love , or kind goodwill Could he receive from his father's hands . Who strove to cut him off from all his lands . Many a stroke and heavy blow he felt , Which often caus'd his youthful eye to melt Into a flood of sad lamenting tears . Thus he with patience suffer'd many years . The darling son was cloath'd in rich array , And often did his gaudy plumes display . Making his father's gold and silver fly , Like summer's dust , in jovial company . While he was thus supported in his pride , The other son was scorn'd and villify'd . And by his father often spurn'd and beatrice . Who seemed then to grudge the bred he eat . Father , said he , what is the cause of this ? If I have acted anything amiss , Tell me my fault , and I will surely mend , For loath I am my parents to offend . At this his father's wrath increased more , And with these words he thrust him out of door , Go take your lot beyond the ocean main , And never let me see your face again . The son he little said , but did part From friends and father with a heavy heart . Encompass'd round with sorrow , grief , and care , To seek his fortune , but he knew not where . Poor heart , when this unhappy chance did fallen , He nothing had then to subsist withal . Yet carefully he travell'd all the day , And then at night upon cold earth he lay . Next morning sleeping on the rural plain , He was awaken'd by a shepherd swain , Who came that way , and having herd his grief , Out of his scrip he give him some relief . This done , in humble sort he took his leave , With many thanks for what he did receive . And so went on to famous London-town . Where for a time he wander'd up and down . And wanting friends on board he went at last , Over the roaring ocean wide he passed . Where we will leave him to God's providence , And show the other brother's insolence . PART II WHEN parents dote upon a certain child , He often proves reverse , stubborn , and wild ; And brings them to the greatest sorrow here , As from this late account it will appear . One of his sons thus gone beyond the seas , The other with his parents liv'd at ease . Until by fruits of sinful wantonness His family was brought to great distress . As you shall hear , for many pounds he spent Among the taverns which he did frequent , Where for a harlot's sake , a man he kill'd , And therefore was in chains and fetters held At Dorchester , in order to be try'd . His father hearing of the news reply'd , He shall not die , and go down to the grave , If all that e'er I have his life can save . To one in town he mortgag'd all his land , Raising five hundred pound then out of land , To keep his darling son from dismal thrall , But yet , dear loving friends , this is not all : For he once more did violate the laws , And was transported for that very cause , From Dorchester , over the raging main , Never to see his native land again , His aged father did in tears lament , His land was mortgag'd , and his money spent Upon their wicked child , which griev'd them soar , Beside he ow'd two hundred pounds or more . For which he could no satisfaction make , Wherefore to jail they did this body take . In tears he wept , beseeching for relief , His chief companion that he had was grief . His downy Beds were turned to Bed of Straw , No comfortable friend alive he saw . For want of food he daily did repine . And tears of woe did serve instead of wine . With wringing hands he said , What have I done ? How have I wrong'd my well-beloving son ? My son that was endow'd with Christian grace , To succour him that brought me to this place . With these and many more lamenting cries , Distilled tears did trickle down his eyes . Where we will leave him in that sad distress , To show the slighted son's true happiness . PART III . NOW having treated of his grief and woe , As he from time to time did undergo , I come to show you how God's blessed hand Restor'd him from a prison to his land . Behold , that son so scorn'd and slighted here , In his distress kind providence did steer . From London-city to the Golden-shore . Where God for him a blessing had in store . For process of time behold he found A wealthy fortune worth ten thousand pound . A virtuous wife , most beautiful and fair , And had some thoughts to live and settle there . But each night he was so disturb'd in mind , No ease nor satisfaction could he find . But still he dream'd most of his friends were dead , And that his aged father begg'd his bred . Being disturb'd with his nocturnal thought , His loving wife , with all his wealth , he brought Over the ocean to fair Weymouth-town , Appearing like some persons of renown . Then to his father's house he did repair , And finding nothing else but strangers there , Concern'd he was , so was his lady too , Supposing that his former dreams were true . When meeting with and ancient gentleman , He said , Kind sir , do tell me if you can , What is become of such a family ? Fetching a sighs , to him he did reply , The darling son whom he did so adore , Has brought his aged father to be poor By his unparallell'd sad villainies ; And now for debt in Dorset-jail he lies . At this sad news his eyes did overflow , And said , My loving lady , let us go And see my aged father in distress . Alas ! I cannot leave him comfortless . Then coming to the prison , he beheld His aged father dear with sorrow fill'd . Clothed in rags , lean skin , and hollow eyes , Having no food his hunger to suffice . The young man's bowels yern'd , his heart did bleed , Said he , Old father , tell me now with speed How long you have been close confined here , It this sad place of sorrow so severe ? Right worthy sir , the aged man reply'd , Your kind request shall soon be satisfy'd , So he began and told him all his grief , And how his son had been the cause in chief . Had you no other son , said he , I pray ? Yes , sir , but him I forc'd away . One that was loving , courteous , kind and m No father could enjoy a sweeter child . But to my sorrow , here I must confess , I loved him that brought me to distress . The other I would not one smile allow , And so the hand of God is on me now . And is the mother of your sons alive ? No , no , sir , she did not long survive , After the sad departure of the first , With utmost grief her tender heart did burst . For having sought her son both far and near , And could of him no tidings hear , Home she return'd , with tears took to her bed , And never after would be comforted . The young man's heart was full , he could not speak Therefore he did a private corner take , To weep his fill , and ease his soul of care , Which done , in jail a feast he did prepare . And call'd his aged father to the same ; Who cring'd and bow'd before him as he came . The young man said , Sure this may not be done Be cover'd , father , for I am your son ; That very son whom you forced away . Your lands I will redeem , your debts I'll pay , And prove a blessing to your ancient days . Dry up your tears , your fainting spirits raise . Art thou my son whom I so long withstood Art thou alive to do thy father good Blessed be God , this news does cheer my heart Thy duty is much more than my desert . O say not so , my aged father dear , Who serve the Lord with a religious fear Must honour parents dear , for conscience sake , Or sure I am a great command they break . I have been harsh and most severe to thee And turn'd thee out in thy minority To seek thy fortune ; this I must confess . How can you pity me in my distress ? In duty , father , I can all forgive . And further , while I have a day to live , What I have promised I'll surely do . The Lord hath prosper'd me to comfort you Soon after this , they from the prison go , He cloath'd his father from the top to toe ; And plac'd him in his happy state once more , For which he gain'd the love of rich and poor . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . onour parents dear , for conscience sake , Or sure I am a great command they break . I have been harsh and most severe to thee And turn'd thee out in thy minority To seek thy fortune ; this I must confess . How can you pity me in my distress ? In duty , father , I can all forgive . And further , while I have a day to live , What I have promised I'll surely do . The Lord hath prosper'd me to comfort you Soon after this , they from the prison go , He cloath'd his father from the top to toe ; And plac'd him in his happy state once more , For which he gain'd the love of rich and poor . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 