H : 18330 A Lamentation from Room , how the Pope does bewail , That the Rebels in England can not prevail , To the tune of Row well you Mariners . ALl you that news would here , Give ear to me poor Fabyn Fly , At Room I was this year , And in the Pope his nose did lie , But there I could not long abide , He blew me out of every side : For furst when he had harden the news , That Rebels did their Prince misuse , Then he with joy , Did sport him self with many a toy , he then so stout , From that his nose he blew me out . But as he was asleep , Into the same again I goo I crept there in so deep , That I had almost burned my coote , New news to him was brought that night . The Rebels they wear put to flight , But Lord how then the Pope took one , And called for a Marry bone , up howgh make has My lovers all be like to waste , rise Cardnall , up priest , Saint Peter he does what he lest . So then they fell to Mess , The Friars one their Beads did pray , The Pope began to bless , At last he weist not what to say . It chanced so the next day morn , A Post came blowing of his Horn , Saying Northomberland is take , But then the Pope began to quake . he then rubbed nose , With Pilgrome salve be anoint his hose , run here , run there , His nails for anger gan to pare . Not Northomberland alone , But many of his wicked aid : Such as thought not to groan , They hoped well for to aplayd , There parts to have there hearts desire , But now is quenched there flames of fire , The greatest and the mean beside , With other youths fast bound must ride , Catch fast , keep well , There youthful blood they long to fell , trust this dear Pope , What is it than wherefore you hope . When he perceived well , The news was true to him was brought , Upon his knees he fell , And then Saint Peter he be sought , That he would stand his friend in this , To help to aid those servants his , And he would do as much for him , But Peter sent him to Saint Simme . So then he snuft , the Friars all about he cuft , He roared he cried , the priests they durst not once abide . The Cardnalles they begins , To stay and take him in there arm , He spurned them on the shins , Away the trudgd for fear of harm . So there the pope was left alone , Good Lord how he did make his moan , The Stools against the Walls he threw , And me out of his nose he blew . I hopt I skipped , From place to place about I whipped , he swore he tear , Till from his Crown he bold the hear . He coursed me so about , In the house I could find no room , Loath I was to go out , And shrind my self under a Brome . Then by and by down he was set , with anger he was one a sweated , He rubbed his elbow on the Wall , So fell a railing on Saint Paule . Fie fie blood heart , He scratchde him self till he did smart , poll nose rube eye , Grash the teth draw mouth awry . He wept and wrong his hands , yea worse and worse began to from Thus radging still he stands , then out at door I did me get , I was not sooner gone from thence , But worse and worse was his pretence , The post he plucked from the house , he left no harbour for a Mouse , thus now the popes mad . Because no better luck they had , forlorn molest , that they so ill their meat digest . When I had viewed all , To bring this news my wings I spread , to this parplict he is fallen . I wish some would go hold his head . For certainly he does ill fare , yet for the same I do not care , For God his power will convince , And aid with right his beloved prince . then Pope radge thou , The God in heaven hath made avow , to keep all his , That God is just our stay he is . Finis . quod Thomas Preston . Imprinted at London , in Fletestrete at the sign of the Falcon by Wylliam Gryffith , and are to be sold at his shop in Sainte Dunstones Churchyard . 1570. H : 18330 A Lamentation from Room , how the Pope does bewail , That the Rebels in England can not prevail , To the tune of Row well you Mariners . ALl you that news would here , Give ear to me poor Fabyn Fly , At Room I was this year , And in the Pope his nose did lie , But there I could not long abide , He blew me out of every side : For furst when he had harden the news , That Rebels did their Prince misuse , Then he with joy , Did sport him self with many a toy , he then so stout , From that his nose he blew me out . But as he was asleep , Into the same again I goo I crept there in so deep , That I had almost burned my coote , New news to him was brought that night . The Rebels they wear put to flight , But Lord how then the Pope took one , And called for a Marry bone , up howgh make has My lovers all be like to waste , rise Cardnall , up priest , Saint Peter he does what he lest . So then they fell to Mess , The Friars one their Beads did pray , The Pope began to bless , At last he weist not what to say . It chanced so the next day morn , A Post came blowing of his Horn , Saying Northomberland is take , But then the Pope began to quake . he then rubbed nose , With Pilgrome salve be anoint his hose , run here , run there , His nails for anger gan to pare . Not Northomberland alone , But many of his wicked aid : Such as thought not to groan , They hoped well for to aplayd , There parts to have there hearts desire , But now is quenched there flames of fire , The greatest and the mean beside , With other youths fast bound must ride , Catch fast , keep well , There youthful blood they long to fell , trust this dear Pope , What is it than wherefore you hope . When he perceived well , The news was true to him was brought , Upon his knees he fell , And then Saint Peter he be sought , That he would stand his friend in this , To help to aid those servants his , And he would do as much for him , But Peter sent him to Saint Simme . So then he snuft , the Friars all about he cuft , He roared he cried , the priests they durst not once abide . The Cardnalles they begins , To stay and take him in there arm , He spurned them on the shins , Away the trudgd for fear of harm . So there the pope was left alone , Good Lord how he did make his moan , The Stools against the Walls he threw , And me out of his nose he blew . I hopt I skipped , From place to place about I whipped , he swore he tear , Till from his Crown he bold the hear . He coursed me so about , In the house I could find no room , Loath I was to go out , And shrind my self under a Brome . Then by and by down he was set , with anger he was one a sweated , He rubbed his elbow on the Wall , So fell a railing on Saint Paule . Fie fie blood heart , He scratchde him self till he did smart , poll nose rube eye , Grash the teth draw mouth awry . He wept and wrong his hands , yea worse and worse began to from Thus radging still he stands , then out at door I did me get , I was not sooner gone from thence , But worse and worse was his pretence , The post he plucked from the house , he left no harbour for a Mouse , thus now the popes mad . Because no better luck they had , forlorn molest , that they so ill their meat digest . When I had viewed all , To bring this news my wings I spread , to this parplict he is fallen . I wish some would go hold his head . For certainly he does ill fare , yet for the same I do not care , For God his power will convince , And aid with right his beloved prince . then Pope radge thou , The God in heaven hath made avow , to keep all his , That God is just our stay he is . Finis . quod Thomas Preston . Imprinted at London , in Fletestrete at the sign of the Falcon by Wylliam Gryffith , and are to be sold at his shop in Sainte Dunstones Churchyard . 1570. 