H : 18334 A Psalm of thanksgiving , to be sung by the Children of Christs Hospital , on Munday in the Easter holy days , at Saint Marry Spittle , for their Founders and Benefactors . Anno Domini . 1610. REgard Oh Lord from heaven above , accept the hearty praise , which Children render for the love , thou shewest to them always . These two lines are to be sung by one or two of the Children , and then repeated by the people and all the Children . THe goodness of the Lord is seen , in all that he hath made , his mercy 'tis in all extremes that sends his creatures aid . No worm so small , no wight so poor , but he preserveth still , the sick he heals , the weak sustains , and hungry soul does fill . we Orphans poor like mercy found , when means and friends were scant , our gracious God a Prince did move , to slake and ease our want . Regard Oh Lord , etc The groundwork of our good thus laid , God raised us Patrons deer Whose liberal hands did still provide , to rid our hearts from fear . You Citizens those patrons are , by you we Orphans live , Food , raiment , learning , all we want , to us you largely give . Bless their endeavours Lord we pray ; increase likewise their store , That those in plenty may abound , which help to feed the poor . Regard Oh Lord , etc O Lord upon our Sovereign King , pour down thy heavenly grace Preserve his Queen , defend the Prince , bless all his royal raze . Plant wisdom in his Counsellors , grant to his Nobles might , Thy church maintain , thy pastor's save , that they may teach aright . On City , Mayor , and Aldermen . Lord let thy mercy fallen , By whom our states are thus relieved , and we released from thrall . Regard Oh Lord etc CHildren kept in Christes Hospital at this present 630 Children put forth Apprentices , and dead this year out of Christes hospital . 54 There hath be cured this year passed in Saint Bartholmews Hospi - tall of Soldiers and other diseased people . 602 There is in the said Hospital under cure at this present . 253 There hath be cured this year passed in Saint Thomas Hospital of Soldiers and other diseased people . 812 There is in the said Hospital under cure at this present 166 Towards the which godly & charitable foundation , King Henry the eight , & King Edward the sixt , were most gracious founders and liberal bennefactors . A Report for Bridewell . THere hath be brought to the Hospital of Bride - well within the space of one year last passed , of wan - dring soldiers and other vagrant people , which have be passed thence into their native countries by Pass - ports , according to the law in that case provided , to the number of 1697. of whom many have be chargeable to the said Hospital in their diet , for the time of their being in the same : some more , some less , as they might thence be conveniently re - moved , beside other helps there ministered unto ma - nigh of them , as cause required : viz. in Hose , Shoes , Shirts , bans , money and such like , which cannot be avoided by reason of their misery , nor they thence passed without charge to the said Hospital , in respect they are to be examined , and considered of , to what country to be transported . Also there is in the said ho - spitall maintained and kept in Arts and occupations , and other servile works and labours , at the charges of the said Hospital , of men , women , and children , to the number of 130. persons , whereof 88 , and upward are poor boys taken out of diverse Parishes and streets of this City , and now bound Apprentices in the said Hospital to be made Freemen of this City at the end of their several Terms . T.S. Printed at London by E. Allde for W. Barley dwelling in Gracious street . 1610. Cum Privilegio . H : 18334 A Psalm of thanksgiving , to be sung by the Children of Christs Hospital , on Munday in the Easter holy days , at Saint Marry Spittle , for their Founders and Benefactors . Anno Domini . 1610. REgard Oh Lord from heaven above , accept the hearty praise , which Children render for the love , thou shewest to them always . These two lines are to be sung by one or two of the Children , and then repeated by the people and all the Children . THe goodness of the Lord is seen , in all that he hath made , his mercy 'tis in all extremes that sends his creatures aid . No worm so small , no wight so poor , but he preserveth still , the sick he heals , the weak sustains , and hungry soul does fill . we Orphans poor like mercy found , when means and friends were scant , our gracious God a Prince did move , to slake and ease our want . Regard Oh Lord , etc The groundwork of our good thus laid , God raised us Patrons deer Whose liberal hands did still provide , to rid our hearts from fear . You Citizens those patrons are , by you we Orphans live , Food , raiment , learning , all we want , to us you largely give . Bless their endeavours Lord we pray ; increase likewise their store , That those in plenty may abound , which help to feed the poor . Regard Oh Lord , etc O Lord upon our Sovereign King , pour down thy heavenly grace Preserve his Queen , defend the Prince , bless all his royal raze . Plant wisdom in his Counsellors , grant to his Nobles might , Thy church maintain , thy pastor's save , that they may teach aright . On City , Mayor , and Aldermen . Lord let thy mercy fallen , By whom our states are thus relieved , and we released from thrall . Regard Oh Lord etc CHildren kept in Christes Hospital at this present 630 Children put forth Apprentices , and dead this year out of Christes hospital . 54 There hath be cured this year passed in Saint Bartholmews Hospi - tall of Soldiers and other diseased people . 602 There is in the said Hospital under cure at this present . 253 There hath be cured this year passed in Saint Thomas Hospital of Soldiers and other diseased people . 812 There is in the said Hospital under cure at this present 166 Towards the which godly & charitable foundation , King Henry the eight , & King Edward the sixt , were most gracious founders and liberal bennefactors . A Report for Bridewell . THere hath be brought to the Hospital of Bride - well within the space of one year last passed , of wan - dring soldiers and other vagrant people , which have be passed thence into their native countries by Pass - ports , according to the law in that case provided , to the number of 1697. of whom many have be chargeable to the said Hospital in their diet , for the time of their being in the same : some more , some less , as they might thence be conveniently re - moved , beside other helps there ministered unto ma - nigh of them , as cause required : viz. in Hose , Shoes , Shirts , bans , money and such like , which cannot be avoided by reason of their misery , nor they thence passed without charge to the said Hospital , in respect they are to be examined , and considered of , to what country to be transported . Also there is in the said ho - spitall maintained and kept in Arts and occupations , and other servile works and labours , at the charges of the said Hospital , of men , women , and children , to the number of 130. persons , whereof 88 , and upward are poor boys taken out of diverse Parishes and streets of this City , and now bound Apprentices in the said Hospital to be made Freemen of this City at the end of their several Terms . T.S. Printed at London by E. Allde for W. Barley dwelling in Gracious street . 1610. Cum Privilegio . 