H : 18336 A Commendation of the adventerus voyage of the wurthy Captain . M. Thomas Stutely Esquyer and others , towards the Land called Terra florida . IF Fortune's force procure , The valiant noble har In travail , pain & dangers great , In wars to have his part . If loss of goods ensue , Through valiant enterprise : Or for slaknes , or the foresight , Of diligent advice . Yet of his wurthy praise , I can not speak tomiche : Who ventreth both his goods and life , His Country to enrich . The worldly wise do muse , And also do invay : At noble hearts when that their wealths , Do fallen unto decay . As now of late I knew , And saw the evidence : Of one whose part it was to show , The like experience . A noble heart in deed , And wurthy great renown : Whose fortune was not to remain , In City nor in Town . A yung Eneas bold , With heart and courage stou Whose enterprise was only pight , Strange things to bring about . And though that all men seemed , His doings to deride : Yet this his fact he would not leave , Nor throw it so a side . But still he doth procure , With boldened heart and mind : That thing which erst he had assayed , By travail now to find . Into a land unknown , To win him wurthy fame : As exequies and memory , Of his most noble name . Which if it fallen his lot , With fortune's helping hand : He may well make a lawhing stock , Of them which him withstand . Same term it Stolida , And Sordida it name : And to be plain they do it mock , As at a foolish game . If reasons sense be cause , Of this forespoken talk : Or feigned folly be the ground , Why men's tungs thus do walk . Then might it seem to me , The Frenches labour los Their careful pain and travail eke , That they therein have tossed . The chronicles also , Which only seem as true : And writ by them that of that place , Before did take the view . The spaniards eke do show , And verify the same : To be described as a thing , Deserving such a name . The Portingales do say , The crownacles be jus And all that travailed have that cost : The same confess it must . If that in times before , Through talks men have refrained : Which for the love of travail soar , Their hearts have long been pained . Columbus as I reed , The space of many years : Was counted as unwise also , As in writers appears . His earnest suit denied , Yet in the final end : His wurds & deeds did seem at length , On reason to depend . The like assay in hand , He did at last procure : Whose life and lucky voyages , Good fortune did assure . At th'end in savety home , At length he did return : And quenched all their mocking hearts Which erst did seem to burn . For fire of force must needs , Declare his burning hea Though for a time in smothering smoke It seems it self to beatrice . So talk of tungs may not , By smothering through be tame : But bursting out at length will turn , Into a firy flame . And then the malice gone , The fire falls down : And quenched quite as by this man , Which was of great renown . Now Stuetley hoice thy sail , Thy wished land to find : And never do regard vain talk , For wurds they are but wind . And in reproof of all , I will not once refrain : With prayer for to wish that thou , Mayest safely come again . And that sum fruit at length , By travail thou mayest find : With riches for to satisfy , Thy manly modest mind . Finis . quod Robert Seal Imprinted at London at the long Shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrie , by John Alde . H : 18336 A Commendation of the adventerus voyage of the wurthy Captain . M. Thomas Stutely Esquyer and others , towards the Land called Terra florida . IF Fortune's force procure , The valiant noble har In travail , pain & dangers great , In wars to have his part . If loss of goods ensue , Through valiant enterprise : Or for slaknes , or the foresight , Of diligent advice . Yet of his wurthy praise , I can not speak tomiche : Who ventreth both his goods and life , His Country to enrich . The worldly wise do muse , And also do invay : At noble hearts when that their wealths , Do fallen unto decay . As now of late I knew , And saw the evidence : Of one whose part it was to show , The like experience . A noble heart in deed , And wurthy great renown : Whose fortune was not to remain , In City nor in Town . A yung Eneas bold , With heart and courage stou Whose enterprise was only pight , Strange things to bring about . And though that all men seemed , His doings to deride : Yet this his fact he would not leave , Nor throw it so a side . But still he doth procure , With boldened heart and mind : That thing which erst he had assayed , By travail now to find . Into a land unknown , To win him wurthy fame : As exequies and memory , Of his most noble name . Which if it fallen his lot , With fortune's helping hand : He may well make a lawhing stock , Of them which him withstand . Same term it Stolida , And Sordida it name : And to be plain they do it mock , As at a foolish game . If reasons sense be cause , Of this forespoken talk : Or feigned folly be the ground , Why men's tungs thus do walk . Then might it seem to me , The Frenches labour los Their careful pain and travail eke , That they therein have tossed . The chronicles also , Which only seem as true : And writ by them that of that place , Before did take the view . The spaniards eke do show , And verify the same : To be described as a thing , Deserving such a name . The Portingales do say , The crownacles be jus And all that travailed have that cost : The same confess it must . If that in times before , Through talks men have refrained : Which for the love of travail soar , Their hearts have long been pained . Columbus as I reed , The space of many years : Was counted as unwise also , As in writers appears . His earnest suit denied , Yet in the final end : His wurds & deeds did seem at length , On reason to depend . The like assay in hand , He did at last procure : Whose life and lucky voyages , Good fortune did assure . At th'end in savety home , At length he did return : And quenched all their mocking hearts Which erst did seem to burn . For fire of force must needs , Declare his burning hea Though for a time in smothering smoke It seems it self to beatrice . So talk of tungs may not , By smothering through be tame : But bursting out at length will turn , Into a firy flame . And then the malice gone , The fire falls down : And quenched quite as by this man , Which was of great renown . Now Stuetley hoice thy sail , Thy wished land to find : And never do regard vain talk , For wurds they are but wind . And in reproof of all , I will not once refrain : With prayer for to wish that thou , Mayest safely come again . And that sum fruit at length , By travail thou mayest find : With riches for to satisfy , Thy manly modest mind . Finis . quod Robert Seal Imprinted at London at the long Shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrie , by John Alde . 