H : 289760 THE MERRY BROOMFIELD : OR , THE WEST COUNTRY WAGER . To a new Tune . Licens'd according to Order . A Noble young 'Squire that liv'd in the West , He courted a young Lady gay ; And as he was merry , he put forth a Jest , A Wager with her he would lay . A Wager with me , the young Lady reply'd , I pray , about what must it be ? If I like the Humour , you shan't be deny'd , I love to be merry and free . Quoth he , I will lay you and hundred Pounds , A hundred Pounds , aye , and ten , That a Maid if you go , to the merry Broomfield , That a Maid you return not again . I'll lay you that Wager the Lady she said , Then the Money she flung down amain , To the merry Broomfield I'll go a pure Maid , The same I'll return Home again . He cover'd her Bet in the Midst of the Hall , With and hundred and ten jolly Pounds : And then to his Servant straightway he did call , For to bring forth his Hawk and his Hounds . A ready Obedience the Servant did yield ; And all was made ready o'er Night . Next Morning he went to the merry Broomfield , To meet with his Love and Delight . Now when he came there having waited a While , Among the green Broom down he lies , The Lady came to him and cou'd not but smile , For Sleep then had closed his Eyes . Upon his right Hand a Gold Ring she secur'd , Down from her own Fingers so fair , That when he awaked he might be assur'd , His Lady and Love had been there . She left him a Posy of pleasant Perfume , Then stepped from the Place where he lay ; And hid herself close in the Besom of the Broom , To hear what her true Love would say . He waken'd and found the Gold Ring on his Hand , Then Sorrow of Heart he was in , My Love has been here I do well understand , And this Wager I now shall not win . O where was you my goodly Gawshawk , The which I have purchas'd so dear , Why did you not waken me out of my Sleep , When the Lady my Lo [ we ] r was here . O with my Bells' did I ring Master , And eke with my Feet did I run , And still did cry , pray awake Master , She's here now and soon will be gone . O where was you my gallant Greyhound , Whose Collar is flourish'd with Gold , Why had'st thou not waken'd me out of my Sleep , When thou did'st my Lady behold . Dear Master I bark'd with my Mouth when she came , And likewise my Collar I shook , And told you that here was the beautiful Dame , But no Notice of me then you took . O where was thou my serving Man , Whom I am clothed so fine , If you had wak'd me when she was here , The Wager then had been mine . In the Night you should have slept Master , And kept awake in the Day , Had you not been sleeping when hither she came , Then a Maid she had not gone away . Then Home he return'd when the Wager was los [ tO ] With Sorrow of Heart I may say ; The Lady she laugh'd to find her Love crossed , This was upon Midsummer-day . O 'Squire I laid in the Bushes conceal'd , And herd you when you did complain : And thus I have been to the merry Broomfield , And a Maid return'd back again . Be cheerful , be cheerful , and do not repine , For now 'tis clear as the Sun : The Money , the Money , the Money is mine , The Wager I fairly have wone . H : 289760 THE MERRY BROOMFIELD : OR , THE WEST COUNTRY WAGER . To a new Tune . Licens'd according to Order . A Noble young 'Squire that liv'd in the West , He courted a young Lady gay ; And as he was merry , he put forth a Jest , A Wager with her he would lay . A Wager with me , the young Lady reply'd , I pray , about what must it be ? If I like the Humour , you shan't be deny'd , I love to be merry and free . Quoth he , I will lay you and hundred Pounds , A hundred Pounds , aye , and ten , That a Maid if you go , to the merry Broomfield , That a Maid you return not again . I'll lay you that Wager the Lady she said , Then the Money she flung down amain , To the merry Broomfield I'll go a pure Maid , The same I'll return Home again . He cover'd her Bet in the Midst of the Hall , With and hundred and ten jolly Pounds : And then to his Servant straightway he did call , For to bring forth his Hawk and his Hounds . A ready Obedience the Servant did yield ; And all was made ready o'er Night . Next Morning he went to the merry Broomfield , To meet with his Love and Delight . Now when he came there having waited a While , Among the green Broom down he lies , The Lady came to him and cou'd not but smile , For Sleep then had closed his Eyes . Upon his right Hand a Gold Ring she secur'd , Down from her own Fingers so fair , That when he awaked he might be assur'd , His Lady and Love had been there . She left him a Posy of pleasant Perfume , Then stepped from the Place where he lay ; And hid herself close in the Besom of the Broom , To hear what her true Love would say . He waken'd and found the Gold Ring on his Hand , Then Sorrow of Heart he was in , My Love has been here I do well understand , And this Wager I now shall not win . O where was you my goodly Gawshawk , The which I have purchas'd so dear , Why did you not waken me out of my Sleep , When the Lady my Lo [ we ] r was here . O with my Bells' did I ring Master , And eke with my Feet did I run , And still did cry , pray awake Master , She's here now and soon will be gone . O where was you my gallant Greyhound , Whose Collar is flourish'd with Gold , Why had'st thou not waken'd me out of my Sleep , When thou did'st my Lady behold . Dear Master I bark'd with my Mouth when she came , And likewise my Collar I shook , And told you that here was the beautiful Dame , But no Notice of me then you took . O where was thou my serving Man , Whom I am clothed so fine , If you had wak'd me when she was here , The Wager then had been mine . In the Night you should have slept Master , And kept awake in the Day , Had you not been sleeping when hither she came , Then a Maid she had not gone away . Then Home he return'd when the Wager was los [ tO ] With Sorrow of Heart I may say ; The Lady she laugh'd to find her Love crossed , This was upon Midsummer-day . O 'Squire I laid in the Bushes conceal'd , And herd you when you did complain : And thus I have been to the merry Broomfield , And a Maid return'd back again . Be cheerful , be cheerful , and do not repine , For now 'tis clear as the Sun : The Money , the Money , the Money is mine , The Wager I fairly have wone . 