H : 289766 The Cruel COOPER of Ratcliff . NEAR Ratcliff-Cross lived a Cooper there Who had a virtuous Wife comely and fair He by this prudent Woman had a Son , Beside this Youth they Children ne'r had none . Though wise and prudent , yet thy cruel Man Did of-imes beatrice her with a cruel Hand ; As the did one Day with Grief of Heart . The Youth with Tears took his Mother's Part. Cries he Father , I'm afraid you will With Kicks and Cuffs my tender Mother kill . Hearing these Words he then his Son did beatrice . And that Night turn'd him into the Street . Saying if thou comest here any more , In break thy Bones , and then lock'd the Door ; In the wide Street this Lad lay all Night , And came in i' th' Morning when it was Light . But when this Man looked and saw his Son , In a vast Passion he to him did run ; And with and Adz knock'd him on the Crown , Which laid the Youth along upon the Ground . Being thus served , in Tears he did lament , Then up he god , and out of Doors he went , Saying if I should any longer stay He in his Wrath he'll take my Life away . And to prevent what Dangers may ensue Father and Mother he bids both adieu ; And having Knowledge of his Father's Trade , Went Cooper' Man to Turky it is said . He liked the Country so well we do find , The Ship came back and left the Lad behind ; He paced himself with a Native to dwell , Who [ s ] e Family loved him very well . Though young in Years he was grown very tall , And of a comely Countenance withal ; The Native Damsels did him much admire , And to enjoy him some had vast Desire . His Master kept him for his Serving Man , And in short Time by Death's destroying Hand ; His Master happened to tip away , Who being dead , the young Man boar the Sway. His Mistress lov'd him as she did her Life , And in short Time was made his lawful Wife ; She was prodigious Rich we understand , And he had many Slaves at his Command . Now will I leave him for a little while , With Providence on him and her to smile , And in the next Part some Enquiry make , What sort of Life his cruel Sire does take . Near Ratcliff-Cros he lived Years 'tis known , And to his Wife he was a cruel one ; And in Process of Time Death did them part , And 'tis supposed this Man broke her Heart . After her Death he could not thrive at all , Day after Day he down at Heels did fallen ; And by Degrees this Man was brought so low , For Debt himself he was fraid to show . The Bailiffs waited for him Day and Night . He knowing of the same , kept out of Sighed ; And to prevent his going to a Goal , In a Merchantman he unto Sea did sail . Thus he for Debt was forc'd to fly from Home , And on the raging Seas where Billows foam , To their great Grief this Man and twenty more , Were carried Prisoners [ tO ] oh the Turkish Shore . It happened so as we do understand , They were made Slaves unto his Son's Command ; Full half a Year in Slavery they had been , In all which Time his Son he had not seen . This Cooper he was aged sixty-two Who was the oldest of the whole ship's crew , Being stiff with Age , his Task could not perform , By which he suffer'd many a bitter Storm , The Task-Master to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed : Upon a Time he lash'd him so one Day , He could no longer stand , but down did lay , Being laid down , Task Master did go , And gave the Head Master this to know ; Crying , Sir , your Slave and aged Man , Will not perform his Task do all I can . He tells me plainly that his Work is done , When hearing this the Head Master his Son , Went out among the Slaves , where he found , His aged Father lying on the Ground . Not knowing him with great Severity He lash'd his Father very grievously ; Which made him cry , Oh! Sir , my Flesh is soar , Do hold thy Hand , and strike me no more . The Task is hard your Servants put on me , What I can do , to that I am most free ; To suffer thus I am not able to live , Kill me outright , and I will you forgive . Hearing these Words , his Son did him view , And said tell me what Countryman are you ? His Answer was , I came from Old-England , I was a Cooper , Sir , from fair London . My Name is Robert Stark , 'tis known right well , I was a Man in great Repute did dwell ; But as it prov'd Fortune did frown on me , Now 'tis my Lot your suffering Slave to be . Have you no Family ? He answer'd , no , I buried a Wife seven Years ago : And I had a Son , a hopeful Child was he , Three Years before her Death he went from me . I have not herd from him now all this while , I was both cruel to my Wife and Child : And I do really think now from my Heart , 'Tis for my Cruelty I thus do smart . Now hearing this his Son with Grief was fill'd , And Terrs like Water that was finely still'd , Run down his Cheeks amain , Tear after Tear , To think that he had lash'd his Father dear . Then he aside his Task-Master did call , And said do not abuse this Man at all : He is my Father , but don't let him know , I am his Son. Then he Home did go . And to his Closet he in private went , Where he with bitter Cries did soar lamen At length by Chance his Wife did him hear , Who said what makes you to grieve my Dear ? His Answer was to grieve great Cause I have . For my own Father is become my Slave : Not knowing him , I lash'd him o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the Curse of God should light on me , But what I did it was innocently : Oh Wife , what shall I do ? my Heart does bleed , Do let my Father come to me with Speed . They sent for him , and when he came thero , They of his tender Flesh did take great Care : His bleeding Wounds anointed were with Oil , And the poor Man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice Linen fine and soft , And other ostly things to him were brought . And when he in these Garments was array'd , He then with Tears lift up his Eyes and said Lord , what am I more than another Slave , That I such Favour of my Master have : Blessed be his Name that thus my Friend does stand , To pity me thus in a Foreign Land. Hearing these Words , his Son could not detain His Tears from falling , and to drop amain ; He said the Man who for you thus hath done , Behold he is your dear and only Son. I'm griev'd to think that I prov'd so severe , To lay my Hands upon my Father dear ; But God I hope will pardon me because I did not know that you my Father was . Hearing these Words , like one struck in Amaze , He with a Blush then on his Son did gaze : Saying , you are my Son , alas ! alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My Son , my Son , I'm glad thy Face to see , But what Astonishment is here for me ? That I who beatrice my Child quite out of Door . Should thus be forc'd his Favour to implore . Father , the Lord he did did these Things foresee . That you should come your Child's Slave to be ; And God was pleas'd these Things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud Mortals to . The Lord has plac'd me here to live and reign , To be a Friend to ease thee of thy Pain ; I'll succour thee while Death , and for thy Sake , I of my Native Slaves great Care will take . He cherish'd him oft Times , but on a Day , His Wife was pleased then these Words to say ; Husband , because he cruel was to you , I ne'er shall love your Father that is true . I do not care that he should here re [ main ] , From whence he came let him return again ; And unto him we will some Riches give , Enough to cherish him while he does live . For Quietness Sake he made her this Reply , But turn'd him round , and wept most bitterly To think that he must with his Father part , Grief like a Spear struck him unto the Heart . Then in short Time his Father left the Shore , And in a Merchant Ship he did come o'er Again to England , and did bring to town , As much in Riches as five Thousand Pounds . He ow'd and Hundred Pounds which he paid , When being out of Debt , these Words he said ; First my dear God I will give Thanks to thee , Next for my Child my Praers shall be . For had it been a [ s I dese ] rv' [ worser ] In Slavery , 'till Death , I had [ h ] im serv'd ; And ne'er had met one in that distant Place Thus to commiserate my wretched Case , Now to conclude , young Men let these Lines Be well engraven in your Hearts and Minds ; That is , to serve the Lord , and shun the Devil , And like this young Man still do Good for Evil. H : 289766 The Cruel COOPER of Ratcliff . NEAR Ratcliff-Cross lived a Cooper there Who had a virtuous Wife comely and fair He by this prudent Woman had a Son , Beside this Youth they Children ne'r had none . Though wise and prudent , yet thy cruel Man Did of-imes beatrice her with a cruel Hand ; As the did one Day with Grief of Heart . The Youth with Tears took his Mother's Part. Cries he Father , I'm afraid you will With Kicks and Cuffs my tender Mother kill . Hearing these Words he then his Son did beatrice . And that Night turn'd him into the Street . Saying if thou comest here any more , In break thy Bones , and then lock'd the Door ; In the wide Street this Lad lay all Night , And came in i' th' Morning when it was Light . But when this Man looked and saw his Son , In a vast Passion he to him did run ; And with and Adz knock'd him on the Crown , Which laid the Youth along upon the Ground . Being thus served , in Tears he did lament , Then up he god , and out of Doors he went , Saying if I should any longer stay He in his Wrath he'll take my Life away . And to prevent what Dangers may ensue Father and Mother he bids both adieu ; And having Knowledge of his Father's Trade , Went Cooper' Man to Turky it is said . He liked the Country so well we do find , The Ship came back and left the Lad behind ; He paced himself with a Native to dwell , Who [ s ] e Family loved him very well . Though young in Years he was grown very tall , And of a comely Countenance withal ; The Native Damsels did him much admire , And to enjoy him some had vast Desire . His Master kept him for his Serving Man , And in short Time by Death's destroying Hand ; His Master happened to tip away , Who being dead , the young Man boar the Sway. His Mistress lov'd him as she did her Life , And in short Time was made his lawful Wife ; She was prodigious Rich we understand , And he had many Slaves at his Command . Now will I leave him for a little while , With Providence on him and her to smile , And in the next Part some Enquiry make , What sort of Life his cruel Sire does take . Near Ratcliff-Cros he lived Years 'tis known , And to his Wife he was a cruel one ; And in Process of Time Death did them part , And 'tis supposed this Man broke her Heart . After her Death he could not thrive at all , Day after Day he down at Heels did fallen ; And by Degrees this Man was brought so low , For Debt himself he was fraid to show . The Bailiffs waited for him Day and Night . He knowing of the same , kept out of Sighed ; And to prevent his going to a Goal , In a Merchantman he unto Sea did sail . Thus he for Debt was forc'd to fly from Home , And on the raging Seas where Billows foam , To their great Grief this Man and twenty more , Were carried Prisoners [ tO ] oh the Turkish Shore . It happened so as we do understand , They were made Slaves unto his Son's Command ; Full half a Year in Slavery they had been , In all which Time his Son he had not seen . This Cooper he was aged sixty-two Who was the oldest of the whole ship's crew , Being stiff with Age , his Task could not perform , By which he suffer'd many a bitter Storm , The Task-Master to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed : Upon a Time he lash'd him so one Day , He could no longer stand , but down did lay , Being laid down , Task Master did go , And gave the Head Master this to know ; Crying , Sir , your Slave and aged Man , Will not perform his Task do all I can . He tells me plainly that his Work is done , When hearing this the Head Master his Son , Went out among the Slaves , where he found , His aged Father lying on the Ground . Not knowing him with great Severity He lash'd his Father very grievously ; Which made him cry , Oh! Sir , my Flesh is soar , Do hold thy Hand , and strike me no more . The Task is hard your Servants put on me , What I can do , to that I am most free ; To suffer thus I am not able to live , Kill me outright , and I will you forgive . Hearing these Words , his Son did him view , And said tell me what Countryman are you ? His Answer was , I came from Old-England , I was a Cooper , Sir , from fair London . My Name is Robert Stark , 'tis known right well , I was a Man in great Repute did dwell ; But as it prov'd Fortune did frown on me , Now 'tis my Lot your suffering Slave to be . Have you no Family ? He answer'd , no , I buried a Wife seven Years ago : And I had a Son , a hopeful Child was he , Three Years before her Death he went from me . I have not herd from him now all this while , I was both cruel to my Wife and Child : And I do really think now from my Heart , 'Tis for my Cruelty I thus do smart . Now hearing this his Son with Grief was fill'd , And Terrs like Water that was finely still'd , Run down his Cheeks amain , Tear after Tear , To think that he had lash'd his Father dear . Then he aside his Task-Master did call , And said do not abuse this Man at all : He is my Father , but don't let him know , I am his Son. Then he Home did go . And to his Closet he in private went , Where he with bitter Cries did soar lamen At length by Chance his Wife did him hear , Who said what makes you to grieve my Dear ? His Answer was to grieve great Cause I have . For my own Father is become my Slave : Not knowing him , I lash'd him o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the Curse of God should light on me , But what I did it was innocently : Oh Wife , what shall I do ? my Heart does bleed , Do let my Father come to me with Speed . They sent for him , and when he came thero , They of his tender Flesh did take great Care : His bleeding Wounds anointed were with Oil , And the poor Man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice Linen fine and soft , And other ostly things to him were brought . And when he in these Garments was array'd , He then with Tears lift up his Eyes and said Lord , what am I more than another Slave , That I such Favour of my Master have : Blessed be his Name that thus my Friend does stand , To pity me thus in a Foreign Land. Hearing these Words , his Son could not detain His Tears from falling , and to drop amain ; He said the Man who for you thus hath done , Behold he is your dear and only Son. I'm griev'd to think that I prov'd so severe , To lay my Hands upon my Father dear ; But God I hope will pardon me because I did not know that you my Father was . Hearing these Words , like one struck in Amaze , He with a Blush then on his Son did gaze : Saying , you are my Son , alas ! alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My Son , my Son , I'm glad thy Face to see , But what Astonishment is here for me ? That I who beatrice my Child quite out of Door . Should thus be forc'd his Favour to implore . Father , the Lord he did did these Things foresee . That you should come your Child's Slave to be ; And God was pleas'd these Things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud Mortals to . The Lord has plac'd me here to live and reign , To be a Friend to ease thee of thy Pain ; I'll succour thee while Death , and for thy Sake , I of my Native Slaves great Care will take . He cherish'd him oft Times , but on a Day , His Wife was pleased then these Words to say ; Husband , because he cruel was to you , I ne'er shall love your Father that is true . I do not care that he should here re [ main ] , From whence he came let him return again ; And unto him we will some Riches give , Enough to cherish him while he does live . For Quietness Sake he made her this Reply , But turn'd him round , and wept most bitterly To think that he must with his Father part , Grief like a Spear struck him unto the Heart . Then in short Time his Father left the Shore , And in a Merchant Ship he did come o'er Again to England , and did bring to town , As much in Riches as five Thousand Pounds . He ow'd and Hundred Pounds which he paid , When being out of Debt , these Words he said ; First my dear God I will give Thanks to thee , Next for my Child my Praers shall be . For had it been a [ s I dese ] rv' [ worser ] In Slavery , 'till Death , I had [ h ] im serv'd ; And ne'er had met one in that distant Place Thus to commiserate my wretched Case , Now to conclude , young Men let these Lines Be well engraven in your Hearts and Minds ; That is , to serve the Lord , and shun the Devil , And like this young Man still do Good for Evil. 