H : 289767 The Low-Country SOLDIER turned BURGOMASTER . HERE you may see the turns of fate , From woe to joy , from poor tO [ oh ] great ; A mark of fortune's special love , Who did a soldier's grief remove . One who in former days , 'tis told , Had trudg'd thro' weather hight and cold , 'Till he was poor and pennyless , You would have laugh'd to have seen the dress . His shoes with trudging up and down No sole they had ; a hat no crown ; His coat no sleeves , his shirt the same , But by his side a sword of fame . Without a scabbard good or bad , Nor was there any to be had ; His coat and breeches would not come , [ I ] n depth to cover half his bum . Now being weary of his trade , One day he to his captain said , Pray now give me a full discharge , That I my fortune may enlarge . I am persuaded I shall be A burgomaster , sir , said he . To Venice , if you'll let me go . His captain smiling answer'd , No. With you , said he , I will not part . Then , thought the soldier , I'll desert My colours , let what will befall : And soon he went for good and all . Now as he march'd with all his might , A coachman and his worthy knight , Upon the road he chanc'd to find . And ask'd to borrow full five pound . At this the knight laugh'd out amain , And said , When will you pay it again , H answer'd , Sir , you shall be paid When I am burgomaster made . Of Venice , which will be my lot , The noble knight away he god . And laugh'd to see him in that trim , But still the coachman lent it him . This being done , away he went To Venice , where some time he spent , To view the palace rich and gay , And then to Burgo's took his way . Who kept a house to entertain All kind of guest . He call'd amain For wine and other liquours free , Tho' in a wretched garb was he . THIS soldier was a gallant blade , And while in pleasure there he stay'd ; Behold a 'squire living near , Courted the burgo's daughter dear , Now as he kept her company , One day the soldier sitting by , Feigning asleep , he overheard This private talk as it appeared . Part of the private talk was this , My dear sweet love the charming bliss , Let me enjoy this selfsame night . The damsel told him that he might . If he would to her chamber creep , When all the house was fast asleep , About the hour of twelve o'clock She would the door for him unlock . The soldier herd the whole design , Thought he , The pleasure shall be mine , And thereupon he went before To the young lady's chamber-door . He knock'd , and soon she let him in . A pleasant game did then begin And ere and hour's time was passed Her love the 'squire came at last . He knock'd , Who's there , the lady cry'd ? The soldier lying by her side Said , It is the ragged fellow sure , Who seem'd as if he slept secure . He herd us , and is come to have That pleasure which our love did crave ; But it's in vain , I will arise And dash the pisspot in his eyes . Accordingly , in woeful case , He dash'd it in the 'squire's face ; Away he goes , and nothing said , Supposing it had been the maid . She laughed at the pleasant jest , And gave him then among the rest A diamond ring with kisses sweet , But did not understand the cheat . Then he arose and went his way . Behold on the succeeding day , Upon his right-hand the ring she espy'd . prey where had you the same , she cry'd ? He answer'd then , and thus he said , Pray be not in the least dismay ; For you was loving , kind and free , Last night , and gave the same to me . O bless me ! did I lie with you ? Since it is so , I pray be true ; And do not let the same be told , So thou shalt never want for gold . He vow'd he would conceal the same , Soon after this the 'squire came , Saying , Why was you so unkind ? The piss pot made me almost blind . The youthful damsel answer'd thus , 'Tis good enough if it were worse : Because you thought to ruin me , My honour and my chastity . IN part the third we must return , Unto a mighty great concern ; Conststing of some thousand pounds , Which the poor soldier's fortune crowns . Behold her wealthy father he , Did send four mighty ships to sea . Laden with glorious merchandise , Rich silks and other wares likewise . They had been gone full seven year , No tale or tiding they could hear Of them ; at length he gave them o'er , And never thought to see them more . At length there was a letter brought , The ships were safe with riches frough Near to the borders of the land , Which news came to his daughter's hand . Then having view'd and read the same , She to the ragged soldier came ; Crying , My dear , be true to me , You shall a Burgomaster be . My father thinks his ships are lost , Which now are on the Venice coast ; And ere he does the tidings hear , Go buy his right in them , my dear . And when thou hast the bargain bought , Of four large ships richly fraughr ; Be what it will , of me you shall Have money to pay for it all . Then on her father he did wait , And struck a bargain with him strait ; For the four ships four hundred pound , Whither the same be lost or found , No sooner was the bargain made , And that small sum of money paid ; But he herd the ships were come . Their burden was a mighty sum . Then did the Burgomaster fret , Cause he with such a loss had met ; But since it could not better be , He with the soldier did agree . To take the daughter for a bride , With all my heart , he then reply'd ; Then out of hand they married were , The soldier and the lady fair . No sooner were they man and wife , But strait her father left this life , And when he in his grave was laid , The son was Burgomaster made . He that had travell'd many miles Was now by fortune's special smiles Made mighty , powerful and great , And knew no end of his estate . NOW mind the latter part I pray , I make no question but you'll say , Still as you read the story out , The things were strangely brought about . While he was Burgomaster we hear , His former captain did repair Unto his house by chance to dine , With other brave cammanders fine . The Burgomaster seeing that , He strait put on his no crown'd hat ; With all his ragged clothes , And so into the room he goes . The captain then began to swear , Lieutenant , pray see who is there My ragged Burgomaster , who In private from his colours flew . Strait from the presence of his good He step'd away , himself he dressed In sumptuous robes he dressed amain . And then return'd to them again . The captain said , Right worthy sir Here is a foolish ragged cur : Endu'd with neither wit nor sense , I'll hang him e'er I go from henee He from his colours did desert . The Burgo said , Be not so tart . In presence of these gentlemen , Write his discharge , here's guineas ten . He wrote the same , and took the gold The Burgomaster said , Behold , I am the man , and now at last What once I said is come to pass . The captain then began to fume , And told his gallants in the room , If he had known as much before , It should have cost him ten times more . And then within a month or less , The knight whom once he did address , To lend him five pounds on the road , Come there to take up his abided . The Burgomaster as before , Put on his robes both rend and tore ; So that the knight might know him strait , As he did on his worship wait , He to his coachman turn'd him round , And said , There's one owes you five pounds When do you think the same to get , He is not Burgomaster yet . The coachman said , as I do live , I freely do the same forgive ; Because I to my sorrow see , He still remains in poverty . For some short time he went away And dressed himself in rich array ; In feathers fine , and rich perfume , And so return'd into the room . Having discours'd with them awhile , He told the coachman with a smile . As he help'd him in time of need , He would return it now indeed . He gave him then five thousand pound Likewise a match for him he found , A sweet young lady fair and clear , Daughter to a renowned peer . The knight was vexed to the heart , That he must with his servant part ? But let him grieve , it must be so , Whither his lordship will or no . Thus he who once was mean and poor , At length enjoys a happy store ; W [ h ] ich fortune unto him did send , And he prov'd grateful to his frindH : 289767 The Low-Country SOLDIER turned BURGOMASTER . HERE you may see the turns of fate , From woe to joy , from poor tO [ oh ] great ; A mark of fortune's special love , Who did a soldier's grief remove . One who in former days , 'tis told , Had trudg'd thro' weather hight and cold , 'Till he was poor and pennyless , You would have laugh'd to have seen the dress . His shoes with trudging up and down No sole they had ; a hat no crown ; His coat no sleeves , his shirt the same , But by his side a sword of fame . Without a scabbard good or bad , Nor was there any to be had ; His coat and breeches would not come , [ I ] n depth to cover half his bum . Now being weary of his trade , One day he to his captain said , Pray now give me a full discharge , That I my fortune may enlarge . I am persuaded I shall be A burgomaster , sir , said he . To Venice , if you'll let me go . His captain smiling answer'd , No. With you , said he , I will not part . Then , thought the soldier , I'll desert My colours , let what will befall : And soon he went for good and all . Now as he march'd with all his might , A coachman and his worthy knight , Upon the road he chanc'd to find . And ask'd to borrow full five pound . At this the knight laugh'd out amain , And said , When will you pay it again , H answer'd , Sir , you shall be paid When I am burgomaster made . Of Venice , which will be my lot , The noble knight away he god . And laugh'd to see him in that trim , But still the coachman lent it him . This being done , away he went To Venice , where some time he spent , To view the palace rich and gay , And then to Burgo's took his way . Who kept a house to entertain All kind of guest . He call'd amain For wine and other liquours free , Tho' in a wretched garb was he . THIS soldier was a gallant blade , And while in pleasure there he stay'd ; Behold a 'squire living near , Courted the burgo's daughter dear , Now as he kept her company , One day the soldier sitting by , Feigning asleep , he overheard This private talk as it appeared . Part of the private talk was this , My dear sweet love the charming bliss , Let me enjoy this selfsame night . The damsel told him that he might . If he would to her chamber creep , When all the house was fast asleep , About the hour of twelve o'clock She would the door for him unlock . The soldier herd the whole design , Thought he , The pleasure shall be mine , And thereupon he went before To the young lady's chamber-door . He knock'd , and soon she let him in . A pleasant game did then begin And ere and hour's time was passed Her love the 'squire came at last . He knock'd , Who's there , the lady cry'd ? The soldier lying by her side Said , It is the ragged fellow sure , Who seem'd as if he slept secure . He herd us , and is come to have That pleasure which our love did crave ; But it's in vain , I will arise And dash the pisspot in his eyes . Accordingly , in woeful case , He dash'd it in the 'squire's face ; Away he goes , and nothing said , Supposing it had been the maid . She laughed at the pleasant jest , And gave him then among the rest A diamond ring with kisses sweet , But did not understand the cheat . Then he arose and went his way . Behold on the succeeding day , Upon his right-hand the ring she espy'd . prey where had you the same , she cry'd ? He answer'd then , and thus he said , Pray be not in the least dismay ; For you was loving , kind and free , Last night , and gave the same to me . O bless me ! did I lie with you ? Since it is so , I pray be true ; And do not let the same be told , So thou shalt never want for gold . He vow'd he would conceal the same , Soon after this the 'squire came , Saying , Why was you so unkind ? The piss pot made me almost blind . The youthful damsel answer'd thus , 'Tis good enough if it were worse : Because you thought to ruin me , My honour and my chastity . IN part the third we must return , Unto a mighty great concern ; Conststing of some thousand pounds , Which the poor soldier's fortune crowns . Behold her wealthy father he , Did send four mighty ships to sea . Laden with glorious merchandise , Rich silks and other wares likewise . They had been gone full seven year , No tale or tiding they could hear Of them ; at length he gave them o'er , And never thought to see them more . At length there was a letter brought , The ships were safe with riches frough Near to the borders of the land , Which news came to his daughter's hand . Then having view'd and read the same , She to the ragged soldier came ; Crying , My dear , be true to me , You shall a Burgomaster be . My father thinks his ships are lost , Which now are on the Venice coast ; And ere he does the tidings hear , Go buy his right in them , my dear . And when thou hast the bargain bought , Of four large ships richly fraughr ; Be what it will , of me you shall Have money to pay for it all . Then on her father he did wait , And struck a bargain with him strait ; For the four ships four hundred pound , Whither the same be lost or found , No sooner was the bargain made , And that small sum of money paid ; But he herd the ships were come . Their burden was a mighty sum . Then did the Burgomaster fret , Cause he with such a loss had met ; But since it could not better be , He with the soldier did agree . To take the daughter for a bride , With all my heart , he then reply'd ; Then out of hand they married were , The soldier and the lady fair . No sooner were they man and wife , But strait her father left this life , And when he in his grave was laid , The son was Burgomaster made . He that had travell'd many miles Was now by fortune's special smiles Made mighty , powerful and great , And knew no end of his estate . NOW mind the latter part I pray , I make no question but you'll say , Still as you read the story out , The things were strangely brought about . While he was Burgomaster we hear , His former captain did repair Unto his house by chance to dine , With other brave cammanders fine . The Burgomaster seeing that , He strait put on his no crown'd hat ; With all his ragged clothes , And so into the room he goes . The captain then began to swear , Lieutenant , pray see who is there My ragged Burgomaster , who In private from his colours flew . Strait from the presence of his good He step'd away , himself he dressed In sumptuous robes he dressed amain . And then return'd to them again . The captain said , Right worthy sir Here is a foolish ragged cur : Endu'd with neither wit nor sense , I'll hang him e'er I go from henee He from his colours did desert . The Burgo said , Be not so tart . In presence of these gentlemen , Write his discharge , here's guineas ten . He wrote the same , and took the gold The Burgomaster said , Behold , I am the man , and now at last What once I said is come to pass . The captain then began to fume , And told his gallants in the room , If he had known as much before , It should have cost him ten times more . And then within a month or less , The knight whom once he did address , To lend him five pounds on the road , Come there to take up his abided . The Burgomaster as before , Put on his robes both rend and tore ; So that the knight might know him strait , As he did on his worship wait , He to his coachman turn'd him round , And said , There's one owes you five pounds When do you think the same to get , He is not Burgomaster yet . The coachman said , as I do live , I freely do the same forgive ; Because I to my sorrow see , He still remains in poverty . For some short time he went away And dressed himself in rich array ; In feathers fine , and rich perfume , And so return'd into the room . Having discours'd with them awhile , He told the coachman with a smile . As he help'd him in time of need , He would return it now indeed . He gave him then five thousand pound Likewise a match for him he found , A sweet young lady fair and clear , Daughter to a renowned peer . The knight was vexed to the heart , That he must with his servant part ? But let him grieve , it must be so , Whither his lordship will or no . Thus he who once was mean and poor , At length enjoys a happy store ; W [ h ] ich fortune unto him did send , And he prov'd grateful to his friend 