H : 289762 HIND's Progress and Ramble . Tune of , Robin Hood Reviv'd . Enter'd according to Order . THere's many a comical Story you know , With a heigh down , down and a down , Of valiant and brave Captain Hind ; A Song of them all , sing hear now I shall , 'Tis jocular , pleasant , and fine . How this valiant Captain his Calling began , With a heigh down , etc In brief you shall here understand ; There's few of his Trade , such Frolicks has play'd among the Outlaws of our Land. He travel'd to London and lit on a Gang , With a heigh , etc Who learn'd him the absolute Art Of taking a Purse , for better or worse , And bravely he manag'd his Part. At length they were routed according to Law , With a heigh , etc And hang'd was each pilfering Elf , Except Jemmy Hind , who strait did design To set up the Trade of himself . Like to a poor Shepherd he harnessed himself , With a heigh , etc Having both a Bottle and Crook , And standing still , at length by a Hill , A Booty he merrily took . He seiz'd upon a young Gallant's brave prancing Horse , With a heigh , etc Brave Pistols and Silver enough ; Which made him to laugh , he gave him his Staff , And bid him to beatrice on the Hoof. Two Thieves that had herd of the Booty he god , With a heigh , etc They came for to rob him next Day ; But brave valiant Hind he sav'd his own Coin , And took the Thieves Money away . As Hind was riding along the Highway , With a heigh , etc And old Hag he happen'd to meet , She gave him a Charm , to keep him from Harm , He threw her a Crown for a Treat . A Gentleman riding towards London from York , With a heigh , etc With Gold , ay , and Silver bright ; Hind soon god the Fleece , then threw him a Piece , To buy him a Supper at Night . Hind happen'd to come to the very same Inn , With a heigh etc Whereat the York Gentleman lay , Who telling his Loss , and seeing Hind's Horse , It was not convenient to stay . Three Gentlemen drinking a Bottle of Wine , With a heigh , etc The Servants rid jogging before , With two Bags of Gold and Silver untold ; Hind herd of that plentiful Store . [ He ] made the Portmantua immediately to bleed , [ W ] ith [ a ] heigh , [ etc ] The Money he cunningly snaps , Then hasten'd away , no Time to delay , He never stood tthrumming of Caps . Hind met with a Parson as he was pursu'd , With a heigh , etc To whom he did merrily say , There's Thieves here behind , are coming you'll find , To take all my Money away . Sir , here is a Pistol , pray shoot at the first , With a heigh , etc Which Pistol the Parson receives , As knowing behold , the Saying of old , One honest Man scares twenty Thieves . The Parson he being Pot-valiant it seems , With a heigh , etc He shot , tho' it happen'd in vain ; Without more ado his Pistol he threw , At which he was presently ta'n . Thus Hind god away , but the Parson was brought , With a heigh , etc Unto and old Justice , 'tis said , Where soon he was clear'd , for why it appear'd That he was no Thief by his Trade . Not far from a River Hind met with a Spark , With a heigh , etc Whose Pockets with Gold were well lin'd , Quoth he , as I live , twenty Pounds I would give , If I could but see Captain Hind . He strait was for changing of Horses with Hind , With a heigh , etc And Thirty Pound gave him to Boot ; Then did he endeavour to leap the wide River , But had not the Power to do't . Quoth Hind , you shall see I will leap it with ease , With a heigh , etc And as he the River did cross , Quoth he , There is twenty for seeing brave Hind , And ten Pound for riding his Horse . Hind met with a Parson which had been robb'd , With a heigh , etc The Story he merrily told , But though the Thieves found in Silver five Pound , My Collar conceal'd my Gold ; What Trade do you think I may be ? said Hind , With a heigh , etc I know not , said the Divine , A Cutter , quoth he , and so you shall see , I want such a Collar as thine . Hind came to a Town where the Bailiffs had god , With a heigh , etc And Innkeeper fast in the Net , And old Usurer , a crabbed old Cur , [ W ] ould send him to Prison for Debt . Hind laid down the Money and took up the Bound , With a heigh , etc Then finding the Man was but poor , He soon paid himself , for he robb'd the old Elf Of that , likewise twenty Pounds more . Hind came to a Gentleman under a Hedge , With a heigh , etc So when he had taken his Chink , He boldly rid on to William his Man , And gave him ten Shillings to drink . Hind god him a Man , and his Name it was Jack , With a heigh , etc And active and delicate Lad , Without any fear he'd ride far and near , Where any thing was to be had . They waited for one that had lodg'd at their Inn , With a heigh , etc And when he came up to their View , Hind can'd him , and cry'd , how slow do you ride , How long must I tarry for you ? And aged Committeeman riding to Town , With a heigh , etc Now that he might go through stitch , Tho' he had Gold Bags , his Coat was all Rags , That Thieves might not think he was rich : Now whither away ? said our brave Captain Hind , With a heigh , etc The other said , Master in brief , I am a poor Heart , and for my own Part , Am going to seek some Relief . Hind threw him a delicate broad Piece of Gold , With a heigh , etc And bid him go drink his good Health , Ah , quoth he , I'll do it right free , And wish you both Honour and Wealth . But when the Committeeman came to his Inn , With a heigh , etc He rail'd against Captain Hind ; The which being told , he plunder'd his Gold , His Budget that was so well lin'd . Of all the great Robbers that ever were known , With a heigh , etc He was the most Frolicsome Blade , His Merriment still did gain him good Will , Tho' long he had follow'd the Trade . At length being taken , for Treason , God wot , With a heigh , etc Against the long Parliament State , Our Captain was try'd , condemned , and dy'd , And thus he submitted to Fate . And many more Frolicks the Captain he play'd , With a heigh , etc Now if you would read them at large , His Book you may buy , good People , for why , It is but a two Penny Charge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White , where Chapmen and others may be furnished with small Books and Ballads . H : 289762 HIND's Progress and Ramble . Tune of , Robin Hood Reviv'd . Enter'd according to Order . THere's many a comical Story you know , With a heigh down , down and a down , Of valiant and brave Captain Hind ; A Song of them all , sing hear now I shall , 'Tis jocular , pleasant , and fine . How this valiant Captain his Calling began , With a heigh down , etc In brief you shall here understand ; There's few of his Trade , such Frolicks has play'd among the Outlaws of our Land. He travel'd to London and lit on a Gang , With a heigh , etc Who learn'd him the absolute Art Of taking a Purse , for better or worse , And bravely he manag'd his Part. At length they were routed according to Law , With a heigh , etc And hang'd was each pilfering Elf , Except Jemmy Hind , who strait did design To set up the Trade of himself . Like to a poor Shepherd he harnessed himself , With a heigh , etc Having both a Bottle and Crook , And standing still , at length by a Hill , A Booty he merrily took . He seiz'd upon a young Gallant's brave prancing Horse , With a heigh , etc Brave Pistols and Silver enough ; Which made him to laugh , he gave him his Staff , And bid him to beatrice on the Hoof. Two Thieves that had herd of the Booty he god , With a heigh , etc They came for to rob him next Day ; But brave valiant Hind he sav'd his own Coin , And took the Thieves Money away . As Hind was riding along the Highway , With a heigh , etc And old Hag he happen'd to meet , She gave him a Charm , to keep him from Harm , He threw her a Crown for a Treat . A Gentleman riding towards London from York , With a heigh , etc With Gold , ay , and Silver bright ; Hind soon god the Fleece , then threw him a Piece , To buy him a Supper at Night . Hind happen'd to come to the very same Inn , With a heigh etc Whereat the York Gentleman lay , Who telling his Loss , and seeing Hind's Horse , It was not convenient to stay . Three Gentlemen drinking a Bottle of Wine , With a heigh , etc The Servants rid jogging before , With two Bags of Gold and Silver untold ; Hind herd of that plentiful Store . [ He ] made the Portmantua immediately to bleed , [ W ] ith [ a ] heigh , [ etc ] The Money he cunningly snaps , Then hasten'd away , no Time to delay , He never stood tthrumming of Caps . Hind met with a Parson as he was pursu'd , With a heigh , etc To whom he did merrily say , There's Thieves here behind , are coming you'll find , To take all my Money away . Sir , here is a Pistol , pray shoot at the first , With a heigh , etc Which Pistol the Parson receives , As knowing behold , the Saying of old , One honest Man scares twenty Thieves . The Parson he being Pot-valiant it seems , With a heigh , etc He shot , tho' it happen'd in vain ; Without more ado his Pistol he threw , At which he was presently ta'n . Thus Hind god away , but the Parson was brought , With a heigh , etc Unto and old Justice , 'tis said , Where soon he was clear'd , for why it appear'd That he was no Thief by his Trade . Not far from a River Hind met with a Spark , With a heigh , etc Whose Pockets with Gold were well lin'd , Quoth he , as I live , twenty Pounds I would give , If I could but see Captain Hind . He strait was for changing of Horses with Hind , With a heigh , etc And Thirty Pound gave him to Boot ; Then did he endeavour to leap the wide River , But had not the Power to do't . Quoth Hind , you shall see I will leap it with ease , With a heigh , etc And as he the River did cross , Quoth he , There is twenty for seeing brave Hind , And ten Pound for riding his Horse . Hind met with a Parson which had been robb'd , With a heigh , etc The Story he merrily told , But though the Thieves found in Silver five Pound , My Collar conceal'd my Gold ; What Trade do you think I may be ? said Hind , With a heigh , etc I know not , said the Divine , A Cutter , quoth he , and so you shall see , I want such a Collar as thine . Hind came to a Town where the Bailiffs had god , With a heigh , etc And Innkeeper fast in the Net , And old Usurer , a crabbed old Cur , [ W ] ould send him to Prison for Debt . Hind laid down the Money and took up the Bound , With a heigh , etc Then finding the Man was but poor , He soon paid himself , for he robb'd the old Elf Of that , likewise twenty Pounds more . Hind came to a Gentleman under a Hedge , With a heigh , etc So when he had taken his Chink , He boldly rid on to William his Man , And gave him ten Shillings to drink . Hind god him a Man , and his Name it was Jack , With a heigh , etc And active and delicate Lad , Without any fear he'd ride far and near , Where any thing was to be had . They waited for one that had lodg'd at their Inn , With a heigh , etc And when he came up to their View , Hind can'd him , and cry'd , how slow do you ride , How long must I tarry for you ? And aged Committeeman riding to Town , With a heigh , etc Now that he might go through stitch , Tho' he had Gold Bags , his Coat was all Rags , That Thieves might not think he was rich : Now whither away ? said our brave Captain Hind , With a heigh , etc The other said , Master in brief , I am a poor Heart , and for my own Part , Am going to seek some Relief . Hind threw him a delicate broad Piece of Gold , With a heigh , etc And bid him go drink his good Health , Ah , quoth he , I'll do it right free , And wish you both Honour and Wealth . But when the Committeeman came to his Inn , With a heigh , etc He rail'd against Captain Hind ; The which being told , he plunder'd his Gold , His Budget that was so well lin'd . Of all the great Robbers that ever were known , With a heigh , etc He was the most Frolicsome Blade , His Merriment still did gain him good Will , Tho' long he had follow'd the Trade . At length being taken , for Treason , God wot , With a heigh , etc Against the long Parliament State , Our Captain was try'd , condemned , and dy'd , And thus he submitted to Fate . And many more Frolicks the Captain he play'd , With a heigh , etc Now if you would read them at large , His Book you may buy , good People , for why , It is but a two Penny Charge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White , where Chapmen and others may be furnished with small Books and Ballads . 