H : 289774 THE Union of the Read Rose and the White ; BY A Marriage between King Henry VII . and a Daughter of King Edward IV. WHEN York and Lancaster made War , Within this famous Land ; The Lives of England's noble Peers , Did much in Danger stand . Seven English Kings in bloody Fields , For England's Crown did fight ; In which their Heirs were all , but twain , Of Life bereft quite . Then thirty Thousand Englishmen , Were in one Battle slave ; Yet could not all this English Blood , A settled Peace obtain . Father's unkind their Children kill'd , And Sons their Father's slew : Yea , Kindred fought against their Kind , And not each other knew . At last , by Henry's lawful Claim , The wasting Wars had End ; For England's Peace he soon restor'd , And did the same defend . For Tyrant Richard , nam'd the Third , The Breeder of this Woe ; By him was slave , near Leicester Town , As Chronicles do show . All Fears of Wars he thus exil'd , Which joy'd each Englishman , And Days of long desired Peace , Within the Land began . He rul'd this Kingdom by true Love , To cheer his Subject's Lives : For every one had daily Joy , And Comfort of their Wives . King Henry had such princely Care , Our further Peace to frame , Took fair Elizabeth to Wife , That gallant Yorkshire Dame . Fourth Edward's Daughter , bless'd of God , To escape King Richard's Spite , Was thus made England's peerless Queen , And Henry's Heart's Delight . Thus Henry first , of Tudor's Name , And Lancaster the first , With York's right Heir , a true Love's Knot , Did link and tie full fast . Renowned York the White Rose gave , Brave Lancaster the Read , By Wedlock now conjoin'd to grow , Both in one princely Bed. These Roses sprung and budded fair , And carried such a Grace , That Kings of England in their Arms , Afford them worthy Place . And flourish may those Roses long , That all the World may tell , How Owners of those princely Flow'rs , In Virtues did excel . To glorify those Roses more , King Henry and his Queen , First plac'd their Pictures in wrought Gold , Most gorgeous to be seen . The King's own Guard now wear the same , Upon their Back and Breast ; Where Love and Loyalty remains , And evermore shall rest . The Read Rose on the Back is plac'd , Thereon a Crown of Gold : The White Rose on the Breast is brave And costly to behold . Bedeck'd most rich with Silver Studs , On Coat of Scarlet read : A blushing Hue with England's Fame , Now many a Year hath bred . Thus Tudor and Plantagenet , These Honours first devis'd ; To welcome long desired Peace , With us so highly priz'd . A Peace that now maintained is , By Charles our Royal King : For Peace brings Plenty to the Land , With every blessed Thing . To speak again of Henry's Praise , His princely lib'ral Hand ; Gave Gifts and Graces many Ways Unto this famous Land. For which the Lord him Blessings sent , And multiply'd his Store : In that he left more Wealth to us , Than any King before . For first his sweet and lovely Queen , A Joy above the rest , Brought him both Sons and Daughters fair , To make his Kingdom blessed . The Royal Blood that was at Ebb , So increas'd by his Queen , That England's Heirs unto this Day , Do flourish fair and green . The first fair Blessing of his Seed , Was Arthur Prince of Wales , Whose Virtue to the Spanish Court , Quite o'er the Ocean fails . There Ferdinand , the King of Spain , His Daughter Katherine gave , For Wife unto the English Prince , A Thing that God would have . Yet Arthur in his lofty Youth , And blooming Time of Age , Submitting meekly his sweet Life , To Death's impartial Rage ; Who dying so , no Issue left , The Sweet of Nature's Joy , Which compass'd England round with Grief , And Spain with sad Annoy . King Henry's second Consort prov'd , A Henry of his Name : In following Times Eight Henry call'd , A King of Noble Fame . He conquer'd Bulloign with his Sword , With many Towns in France : His manly Mind and Fortitude , Did England's Fame advance . He Popish Abbeys first suppress'd , And Papistry pull'd down ; And bound their Lands by Parliament , Unto his Royal Crown . He had three Children by three Wives , And Princes reigning here : Edward , Marry , and Elizabeth , A Queen belov'd most dear . These three sweet Branches bore no Fruit , God no such Joy did send ; Thro' which the kingly Tudor's Name , In England there had End. The last Plantagenet that liv'd , Was nam'd Elizabeth : Elizabeth last Tudor was , The greatest Queen on Earth . Seventh Henry yet we name again , Whose Grace gave free Consent , To have his Daughters married both To Kings of high Descent . Margaret , the eldest of the twain , Was made great Scotland's Queen ; As wise , as fair , as virtuous , As e'er was Lady seen . From which fair Queen , our Royal King Does lineally descend ; And rightfully enjoys that Crown , Which God does still befriend . For Tudor and Plantagenet , By yielding unto Death , Have made renowned Stuart's Name , The greatest upon Earth . His youngest Daughter , Marry call'd , As princely in Degree ; Was by her Father worthy thought , The Queen of France to be : And after to the Suffolk Duke , Was made a noble Wife , When in the famous English Court , She led a virtuous Life . King Henry and his loving Queen , Rejoic'd to see the Day ; To have their Children thus advanc'd , With Honours every Way . Which purchas'd Pleasure and Content , With many Years Delight ; Till sad Mischance , by cruel Death , Procur'd them both a Spite . The Queen that fair and princely Dame , That Mother meek and mild ; To add more Number to her Joy , Again grew big with Child : All which brought Comfort to the King , Against which careful Hour , He lodg'd his dear kindhearted Queen , In London's stately Tower . That Tower that was so fatal once , To Princes of Degree ; Prov'd fatal to this noble Queen , For therein died she . In Childbed lost she her sweet Life , Her Life esteem'd so dear ; Which had been England's loving Queen , Full many a happy Year . The King herewith possess'd with Grief , Spent many Months in Moan ; And daily sigh'd , and said that he Like her could find out none : Nor none could he in Fancy choose , To make his wedded Wife ; Wherefore a Widower would remain , The Remnant of his Life . His after Days he spent in Peace , And Quietness of Mind . Like King and Queen , as those two were , The World can hardly find . Our King and Queen , yet like to them , In Virtue and true Love ; Have heavenly Blessings in like Sort , From heavenly Pow'rs above . H : 289774 THE Union of the Read Rose and the White ; BY A Marriage between King Henry VII . and a Daughter of King Edward IV. WHEN York and Lancaster made War , Within this famous Land ; The Lives of England's noble Peers , Did much in Danger stand . Seven English Kings in bloody Fields , For England's Crown did fight ; In which their Heirs were all , but twain , Of Life bereft quite . Then thirty Thousand Englishmen , Were in one Battle slave ; Yet could not all this English Blood , A settled Peace obtain . Father's unkind their Children kill'd , And Sons their Father's slew : Yea , Kindred fought against their Kind , And not each other knew . At last , by Henry's lawful Claim , The wasting Wars had End ; For England's Peace he soon restor'd , And did the same defend . For Tyrant Richard , nam'd the Third , The Breeder of this Woe ; By him was slave , near Leicester Town , As Chronicles do show . All Fears of Wars he thus exil'd , Which joy'd each Englishman , And Days of long desired Peace , Within the Land began . He rul'd this Kingdom by true Love , To cheer his Subject's Lives : For every one had daily Joy , And Comfort of their Wives . King Henry had such princely Care , Our further Peace to frame , Took fair Elizabeth to Wife , That gallant Yorkshire Dame . Fourth Edward's Daughter , bless'd of God , To escape King Richard's Spite , Was thus made England's peerless Queen , And Henry's Heart's Delight . Thus Henry first , of Tudor's Name , And Lancaster the first , With York's right Heir , a true Love's Knot , Did link and tie full fast . Renowned York the White Rose gave , Brave Lancaster the Read , By Wedlock now conjoin'd to grow , Both in one princely Bed. These Roses sprung and budded fair , And carried such a Grace , That Kings of England in their Arms , Afford them worthy Place . And flourish may those Roses long , That all the World may tell , How Owners of those princely Flow'rs , In Virtues did excel . To glorify those Roses more , King Henry and his Queen , First plac'd their Pictures in wrought Gold , Most gorgeous to be seen . The King's own Guard now wear the same , Upon their Back and Breast ; Where Love and Loyalty remains , And evermore shall rest . The Read Rose on the Back is plac'd , Thereon a Crown of Gold : The White Rose on the Breast is brave And costly to behold . Bedeck'd most rich with Silver Studs , On Coat of Scarlet read : A blushing Hue with England's Fame , Now many a Year hath bred . Thus Tudor and Plantagenet , These Honours first devis'd ; To welcome long desired Peace , With us so highly priz'd . A Peace that now maintained is , By Charles our Royal King : For Peace brings Plenty to the Land , With every blessed Thing . To speak again of Henry's Praise , His princely lib'ral Hand ; Gave Gifts and Graces many Ways Unto this famous Land. For which the Lord him Blessings sent , And multiply'd his Store : In that he left more Wealth to us , Than any King before . For first his sweet and lovely Queen , A Joy above the rest , Brought him both Sons and Daughters fair , To make his Kingdom blessed . The Royal Blood that was at Ebb , So increas'd by his Queen , That England's Heirs unto this Day , Do flourish fair and green . The first fair Blessing of his Seed , Was Arthur Prince of Wales , Whose Virtue to the Spanish Court , Quite o'er the Ocean fails . There Ferdinand , the King of Spain , His Daughter Katherine gave , For Wife unto the English Prince , A Thing that God would have . Yet Arthur in his lofty Youth , And blooming Time of Age , Submitting meekly his sweet Life , To Death's impartial Rage ; Who dying so , no Issue left , The Sweet of Nature's Joy , Which compass'd England round with Grief , And Spain with sad Annoy . King Henry's second Consort prov'd , A Henry of his Name : In following Times Eight Henry call'd , A King of Noble Fame . He conquer'd Bulloign with his Sword , With many Towns in France : His manly Mind and Fortitude , Did England's Fame advance . He Popish Abbeys first suppress'd , And Papistry pull'd down ; And bound their Lands by Parliament , Unto his Royal Crown . He had three Children by three Wives , And Princes reigning here : Edward , Marry , and Elizabeth , A Queen belov'd most dear . These three sweet Branches bore no Fruit , God no such Joy did send ; Thro' which the kingly Tudor's Name , In England there had End. The last Plantagenet that liv'd , Was nam'd Elizabeth : Elizabeth last Tudor was , The greatest Queen on Earth . Seventh Henry yet we name again , Whose Grace gave free Consent , To have his Daughters married both To Kings of high Descent . Margaret , the eldest of the twain , Was made great Scotland's Queen ; As wise , as fair , as virtuous , As e'er was Lady seen . From which fair Queen , our Royal King Does lineally descend ; And rightfully enjoys that Crown , Which God does still befriend . For Tudor and Plantagenet , By yielding unto Death , Have made renowned Stuart's Name , The greatest upon Earth . His youngest Daughter , Marry call'd , As princely in Degree ; Was by her Father worthy thought , The Queen of France to be : And after to the Suffolk Duke , Was made a noble Wife , When in the famous English Court , She led a virtuous Life . King Henry and his loving Queen , Rejoic'd to see the Day ; To have their Children thus advanc'd , With Honours every Way . Which purchas'd Pleasure and Content , With many Years Delight ; Till sad Mischance , by cruel Death , Procur'd them both a Spite . The Queen that fair and princely Dame , That Mother meek and mild ; To add more Number to her Joy , Again grew big with Child : All which brought Comfort to the King , Against which careful Hour , He lodg'd his dear kindhearted Queen , In London's stately Tower . That Tower that was so fatal once , To Princes of Degree ; Prov'd fatal to this noble Queen , For therein died she . In Childbed lost she her sweet Life , Her Life esteem'd so dear ; Which had been England's loving Queen , Full many a happy Year . The King herewith possess'd with Grief , Spent many Months in Moan ; And daily sigh'd , and said that he Like her could find out none : Nor none could he in Fancy choose , To make his wedded Wife ; Wherefore a Widower would remain , The Remnant of his Life . His after Days he spent in Peace , And Quietness of Mind . Like King and Queen , as those two were , The World can hardly find . Our King and Queen , yet like to them , In Virtue and true Love ; Have heavenly Blessings in like Sort , From heavenly Pow'rs above . 