H : 289770 The WEAVER's Garland ; Or , A new School for Christian Patience . SWeet , dear , and Loving Wife My Senses are at Strife , About this careful Life , For we decline ; Times being grievious hard , All trading spoil'd and marr'd , I have a sweet regard For thee and thine . I thank you for your C [ are ] e , Yet Husband don't despair , Let us with Patience bear These Troubles here . Dear Love , this all in vain , To weep , sighs , and complain , Love , we may thrive again , Be of good cheer . My dearest Love , said he , How can I cheerful be ? While pinching Poverty Knocks at the Door , And will not hence Depart , But wounds me to the Heart , I never felt such Smart , Sweet Wife , before . Dear Husband do not make Such Moan for Heaven's sake , Of me this Council take , Your Bosom-Friend : By Patience put your Trust , In him that made you first , When Times are at the worst , Sure they will mend . Dear Love , it may be so , But while the G [ ra ] ss does grow The Steed may starve you know , Then 'tis too Late . So my dear Family , Which wants a quick supply , By long Delays may die , Oh cruel Fate . Sweet Husband don't Despair , Avoid distracting Care , I will the Burden bear Along with you . Our Sons and Daughters they Shall Work , and if we may , Get Bred from Day to Day , Love that will do . At a sad dismal Rate , Sweet Wife thou know'st of late , My Losses have been great , By wicked Men . Pine not for worldly Pelf , Bless God we have our Health , And that is more than Wealth , Be thankful then . Job lost Abundance more , Beside his Body soar ; Yet he with Patience boar , While Tidings came , How all the Ruins lay , He patiently did say God gives and takes away , Blessed be his Name . Job did not fume and fret , When with these Things he met Dear loving Husband , let Us imitate His Patience when in Pain , Job found it not in vain , God rais'd him up again , And made him Great . Love I have often read How Job was comforted , Yet I am full of Dread And Fear , for why Our Family is large , Six Children are some Charge , We fallen within the Verge Of Poverty . Dear husband , don't repine , Nor grudge this Charge of thine . Blessed be the Powers divine , Sweet Babes they are . When we shall aged grow , With Locks like Winter Snow , They may for ought I know , Lesson our Care . It is a great Offence , To distrust Providence , Whose blessed Influence Takes special Care Of all the Sons of Men , Husband be cheerful then God will be gracious when Thankful we are . My Fingers do not itch To be exceeding rich , May we but go thro' stitch , Keep from the Door The greedy Wolf of Prey , And all our Dealers pay , Believe me what I say , We need no more . I and my Children dear Will Work , then never fear , But we shall something clear , Tommy shall weave : The Girls shall all begin Forthwith to carded and spin , Which will bring something in , Then never grieve . These Hands that never wrought Shall be to Labour brought , All which I never thought Wou'd be till now . But in regard I see It is my Destiny , I'll draw along with thee , GOD speed the PLOUGH . [ I ] valve not to dine On sumptuous Dishes fine , With rich and racy Wine , From foreign Parts . Good wholesome Bred & Beer , Instead of better cheer , Let us receive my Dear , With thankful hearts . In all Conditions still , Let us not take it ill , Since 'tis his blessed Will , It should be so : Whither we rise or fallen , Our Substance great or small , Content is all in all , My Dear you know . O most indulgent Mate , After this long Debate , My Comforts they are great In a kind Wife . Tho' some may think it strange My Fancy seems to range , But now a happy Change , Does bless my Life . For to my Joy I find A sweet composed Mind , I wish that all Mankind , Was full as well . Despair's a dreadful Thing , And does poor Mortals bring Unto the bitter sting Of Death and Hell . Sweet Wife and heart's delight , I had been ruin'd quite , In Death's eternal Night , Hadst thou not been The happy Instrument , That Ruin to prevent , Love , Joy , and sweet Content , I now am in . Tho' slender is my Store , Yet I'll despair no more , That Man is truly poor That wants Content . But where Content's increas'd , 'Tis a continual Feast , Praise God I am releass'd , Death to prevent . As God gives me Grace , This Council I'll embrace , Despair shall take place In me henceforth . Farewell litigious Strife , And come my cheerful Wife , Thy words have sav'd my Life , God bless us both . And all Mankind likewise , From the Calamities , Which do as Fogs arise , From foul Despair . Let doubtful Christians fly In their Extremity To God who sits on high , By fervent Prayer . He is Man's Friend in chief , The Fountain of Relief , When I was lost in Grief , And at the worst . My dear indulgent Bride , Her Council was my Guide , In God I'm satisfy'd , In whom I trust . My Children , Wife , and I , We will ourselves apply To true Industry , And leave the rest To Providence divine , Henceforth I'll not repine , I hope that me and mine , Shall still be blessed . Thus by the good Wive's Care , The Husband in Despair Was brought at length to bear , His Sorrows rife . The bitter Cup of Grief , Her Words did yield Relief , She was his Friend in chief , And faithful Wife . Good Men and Women pray That hear me now this Day , Labour without delay , To live in Love . Assist each other still , In Fortune Good or Ill , Then you'll have a Blessing still Come from above . Sold at No. 42 , Long Lane . H : 289770 The WEAVER's Garland ; Or , A new School for Christian Patience . SWeet , dear , and Loving Wife My Senses are at Strife , About this careful Life , For we decline ; Times being grievious hard , All trading spoil'd and marr'd , I have a sweet regard For thee and thine . I thank you for your C [ are ] e , Yet Husband don't despair , Let us with Patience bear These Troubles here . Dear Love , this all in vain , To weep , sighs , and complain , Love , we may thrive again , Be of good cheer . My dearest Love , said he , How can I cheerful be ? While pinching Poverty Knocks at the Door , And will not hence Depart , But wounds me to the Heart , I never felt such Smart , Sweet Wife , before . Dear Husband do not make Such Moan for Heaven's sake , Of me this Council take , Your Bosom-Friend : By Patience put your Trust , In him that made you first , When Times are at the worst , Sure they will mend . Dear Love , it may be so , But while the G [ ra ] ss does grow The Steed may starve you know , Then 'tis too Late . So my dear Family , Which wants a quick supply , By long Delays may die , Oh cruel Fate . Sweet Husband don't Despair , Avoid distracting Care , I will the Burden bear Along with you . Our Sons and Daughters they Shall Work , and if we may , Get Bred from Day to Day , Love that will do . At a sad dismal Rate , Sweet Wife thou know'st of late , My Losses have been great , By wicked Men . Pine not for worldly Pelf , Bless God we have our Health , And that is more than Wealth , Be thankful then . Job lost Abundance more , Beside his Body soar ; Yet he with Patience boar , While Tidings came , How all the Ruins lay , He patiently did say God gives and takes away , Blessed be his Name . Job did not fume and fret , When with these Things he met Dear loving Husband , let Us imitate His Patience when in Pain , Job found it not in vain , God rais'd him up again , And made him Great . Love I have often read How Job was comforted , Yet I am full of Dread And Fear , for why Our Family is large , Six Children are some Charge , We fallen within the Verge Of Poverty . Dear husband , don't repine , Nor grudge this Charge of thine . Blessed be the Powers divine , Sweet Babes they are . When we shall aged grow , With Locks like Winter Snow , They may for ought I know , Lesson our Care . It is a great Offence , To distrust Providence , Whose blessed Influence Takes special Care Of all the Sons of Men , Husband be cheerful then God will be gracious when Thankful we are . My Fingers do not itch To be exceeding rich , May we but go thro' stitch , Keep from the Door The greedy Wolf of Prey , And all our Dealers pay , Believe me what I say , We need no more . I and my Children dear Will Work , then never fear , But we shall something clear , Tommy shall weave : The Girls shall all begin Forthwith to carded and spin , Which will bring something in , Then never grieve . These Hands that never wrought Shall be to Labour brought , All which I never thought Wou'd be till now . But in regard I see It is my Destiny , I'll draw along with thee , GOD speed the PLOUGH . [ I ] valve not to dine On sumptuous Dishes fine , With rich and racy Wine , From foreign Parts . Good wholesome Bred & Beer , Instead of better cheer , Let us receive my Dear , With thankful hearts . In all Conditions still , Let us not take it ill , Since 'tis his blessed Will , It should be so : Whither we rise or fallen , Our Substance great or small , Content is all in all , My Dear you know . O most indulgent Mate , After this long Debate , My Comforts they are great In a kind Wife . Tho' some may think it strange My Fancy seems to range , But now a happy Change , Does bless my Life . For to my Joy I find A sweet composed Mind , I wish that all Mankind , Was full as well . Despair's a dreadful Thing , And does poor Mortals bring Unto the bitter sting Of Death and Hell . Sweet Wife and heart's delight , I had been ruin'd quite , In Death's eternal Night , Hadst thou not been The happy Instrument , That Ruin to prevent , Love , Joy , and sweet Content , I now am in . Tho' slender is my Store , Yet I'll despair no more , That Man is truly poor That wants Content . But where Content's increas'd , 'Tis a continual Feast , Praise God I am releass'd , Death to prevent . As God gives me Grace , This Council I'll embrace , Despair shall take place In me henceforth . Farewell litigious Strife , And come my cheerful Wife , Thy words have sav'd my Life , God bless us both . And all Mankind likewise , From the Calamities , Which do as Fogs arise , From foul Despair . Let doubtful Christians fly In their Extremity To God who sits on high , By fervent Prayer . He is Man's Friend in chief , The Fountain of Relief , When I was lost in Grief , And at the worst . My dear indulgent Bride , Her Council was my Guide , In God I'm satisfy'd , In whom I trust . My Children , Wife , and I , We will ourselves apply To true Industry , And leave the rest To Providence divine , Henceforth I'll not repine , I hope that me and mine , Shall still be blessed . Thus by the good Wive's Care , The Husband in Despair Was brought at length to bear , His Sorrows rife . The bitter Cup of Grief , Her Words did yield Relief , She was his Friend in chief , And faithful Wife . Good Men and Women pray That hear me now this Day , Labour without delay , To live in Love . Assist each other still , In Fortune Good or Ill , Then you'll have a Blessing still Come from above . Sold at No. 42 , Long Lane . 