H : 289769 A Lamentable BALLAD of the tragical End of a gallant Lord and a virtuous Lady , and the untimely End of their two Children , wickedly perform'd by a heathenish Blackamoor , their Servant , the like never herd of before . To the Tune of Flying Fame , IN Room a noble Lord did wed , A Virgin of great Fame , A fairer Creature never did , Dame Nature ever frame : By whom he had two Children fair . Whose Beauty did excel , They were their Parents only Joy . They lov'd them both so well . This Lord he lov'd to hunt the Buck , The Tiger and the Bear , And still for Swifteness always took , With him a Blackamoor : Which Blackamoor in the Wood , His Lord he did offend . For which he did him then correct , In hope's he would amend . The Day it grew unto and End. Then homeward he did haste , Where with his Lady he did rest , Until the Night was passed . Then in the Morning he did rise , And did his Servants call , A hunting he provides to go , Straight they were ready all . Because of Toil the Lady did , Entreat him not to go : Alas ! good Lady then , quoth he , Why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself , I will return , With Speed to the again : Good Father , quoth the Little Babes , With us here still remain . Farewell , dear Children , I will go , A fine Thing for to buy . But they therewith nothing content , Aloud began to cry : Their Mother takes them by the Hand Saying , Come go with me , Unto the highest Tower , where . Your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now , Who then did stay behind , His Lord to be a hunting gone , Began to call to Mind : My Master he did me correct , My Fault not being great . Now of his Wife I'll be revenged . She shall not me entreat . This Place was moted round about , The Bridge he did undraw , The Gates he bolted very fast , Of none he stood in Awe ; He up unto the Tower went , The Lady being there : Who when she saw his Countenance , She straight began to fear . But now my trembling Heart it quakes To think that I must write : My Senses all begin to fail , My soul it does affrigh Yet I must make and End of this , Which here I have begun , Which will make sad the hardest heart Before that I have done . This Wretch unto the Lady went , And her with Speed did will , His Lust forthwith to satisfy His mind for to fulfil . Then she amazed was , To hear the Villain speak . Alas ! quoth she what shall I do ? With Grief my Heart will break . With that he took her in his Arms , She straight for Help did cry . Content yourself , Lady , he said , Your Husband is not nigh ; The Bridge is drawn , the Gates are shut , Therefore come lie with me ; Or else I do protest and vow , Thy Butcher I will be The crystal Tears ran down her Face , Her Children cry'd amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , But it was all in vain , So that egregious , filthy Rogue . Her Hands behind her bound , And then by Force with all his Might He threw her on the Ground . With that she shriek'd , her Children cry'd And such a Noise did make , The Town's Folk hearing her lament , Did seek their Parts to take : But all in vain , no Way was found , To help the Lady's Need , Who cries to them most piteous Oh help ! O help ! with Speed . Some ran [ i ] unto the forest wide , Her Lord home for to call ; And they that stood did still lament . This gallant Lady's Fallen . With Speed her Lord came posting home He could not enter in ; His Lady's Cries did pierce his Heart , Her dearest Blood to spill . Oh! hold thy Hand thou Savage Moor To hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure as I do live , Wild horses shall the tear . With that the Rogue ran to the Wall , He having god his Will , And brought one Child under his Arm , To call he did begin . The Child seeing his Father there , To him for Help did call , Oh Father help ! my Mother dear , We shall be killed all . Then fell the Lord upon his Knee , And did the Moor entreat , To save the Life of his dear Child , Whose fear was then so great . But this vile Wretch the little Child , By both the Heels did take , And dash'd his Brains against the Wall , While Parents Hearts did ache , That being done straightway he ran , The other Child to fetch , And pluck'd it from the Mother's Breast , Most like a cruel Wretch . Within one Hand a Knife he brought , The Child within the other , And holding it over the Wall , Saying thus shall die thy Mother , With that he cut the Throat of it ; Then to the Lord did call , To look how he the Neck had cut , And down the head did fallen . Then threw the Body down the Wall , Into the Mote so deep ; Which made the Father wring his Hands And grievously to weep : Then to the Lady went this Rogue , Who was near dead with Fear ; Yet this vile Wrtch most cruelly , Did drag her by the Hair . And drew her to the very Wall , Which when her Lord did see , Then presently , he cry'd out , And fell upon his Knee . Quoth he if thou wilt save her Life , Whom I do love so dear , I will forgive thee all that's past . Though they concern me near . O save her Life I thee beseech , Oh save her Life I thee pray , And I will grant thee what thou wilt . Demand of me this Day : Well , quoth the Moor , I do regard . The Moan that thou dost make ; If thou wilt grant me what I ask , I'll save her for thy Sake . O save her Life and then demand , Of me what thing thou wilt , Cut of thy Nose , and not one Drop , Of her Blood shall be spilled . With that the Lord he presently took , A Knife within his Hand , And then his Nose he quite cut off , In Place where he did stand . Now I have bought the Lady's Life , He to the Moor did call , Then take her , quoth the wicked Rogue And down he let her fallen , Which when this gallant Lord did see , His Senses all did fail , Yet many sought to save her Life , Yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see her dead . Then he did laugh amain , At them who for their gallant Lord , And Lady did complain . Quoth he , I' know you'll torture me , If that you can me get ; But all you Threats I do not fear , Nor yet regard one Whit Wild Horses shall thy Body tear , I know it to be true ; But I'll prevent you of that Pain . And down himself he threw : Too good a Death for such a Wretch , A Villain void of Fear ; And thus does end as sad a Tale , As ever Man did hear . Newcastle : Printed in this present Year . H : 289769 A Lamentable BALLAD of the tragical End of a gallant Lord and a virtuous Lady , and the untimely End of their two Children , wickedly perform'd by a heathenish Blackamoor , their Servant , the like never herd of before . To the Tune of Flying Fame , IN Room a noble Lord did wed , A Virgin of great Fame , A fairer Creature never did , Dame Nature ever frame : By whom he had two Children fair . Whose Beauty did excel , They were their Parents only Joy . They lov'd them both so well . This Lord he lov'd to hunt the Buck , The Tiger and the Bear , And still for Swifteness always took , With him a Blackamoor : Which Blackamoor in the Wood , His Lord he did offend . For which he did him then correct , In hope's he would amend . The Day it grew unto and End. Then homeward he did haste , Where with his Lady he did rest , Until the Night was passed . Then in the Morning he did rise , And did his Servants call , A hunting he provides to go , Straight they were ready all . Because of Toil the Lady did , Entreat him not to go : Alas ! good Lady then , quoth he , Why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself , I will return , With Speed to the again : Good Father , quoth the Little Babes , With us here still remain . Farewell , dear Children , I will go , A fine Thing for to buy . But they therewith nothing content , Aloud began to cry : Their Mother takes them by the Hand Saying , Come go with me , Unto the highest Tower , where . Your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now , Who then did stay behind , His Lord to be a hunting gone , Began to call to Mind : My Master he did me correct , My Fault not being great . Now of his Wife I'll be revenged . She shall not me entreat . This Place was moted round about , The Bridge he did undraw , The Gates he bolted very fast , Of none he stood in Awe ; He up unto the Tower went , The Lady being there : Who when she saw his Countenance , She straight began to fear . But now my trembling Heart it quakes To think that I must write : My Senses all begin to fail , My soul it does affrigh Yet I must make and End of this , Which here I have begun , Which will make sad the hardest heart Before that I have done . This Wretch unto the Lady went , And her with Speed did will , His Lust forthwith to satisfy His mind for to fulfil . Then she amazed was , To hear the Villain speak . Alas ! quoth she what shall I do ? With Grief my Heart will break . With that he took her in his Arms , She straight for Help did cry . Content yourself , Lady , he said , Your Husband is not nigh ; The Bridge is drawn , the Gates are shut , Therefore come lie with me ; Or else I do protest and vow , Thy Butcher I will be The crystal Tears ran down her Face , Her Children cry'd amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , But it was all in vain , So that egregious , filthy Rogue . Her Hands behind her bound , And then by Force with all his Might He threw her on the Ground . With that she shriek'd , her Children cry'd And such a Noise did make , The Town's Folk hearing her lament , Did seek their Parts to take : But all in vain , no Way was found , To help the Lady's Need , Who cries to them most piteous Oh help ! O help ! with Speed . Some ran [ i ] unto the forest wide , Her Lord home for to call ; And they that stood did still lament . This gallant Lady's Fallen . With Speed her Lord came posting home He could not enter in ; His Lady's Cries did pierce his Heart , Her dearest Blood to spill . Oh! hold thy Hand thou Savage Moor To hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure as I do live , Wild horses shall the tear . With that the Rogue ran to the Wall , He having god his Will , And brought one Child under his Arm , To call he did begin . The Child seeing his Father there , To him for Help did call , Oh Father help ! my Mother dear , We shall be killed all . Then fell the Lord upon his Knee , And did the Moor entreat , To save the Life of his dear Child , Whose fear was then so great . But this vile Wretch the little Child , By both the Heels did take , And dash'd his Brains against the Wall , While Parents Hearts did ache , That being done straightway he ran , The other Child to fetch , And pluck'd it from the Mother's Breast , Most like a cruel Wretch . Within one Hand a Knife he brought , The Child within the other , And holding it over the Wall , Saying thus shall die thy Mother , With that he cut the Throat of it ; Then to the Lord did call , To look how he the Neck had cut , And down the head did fallen . Then threw the Body down the Wall , Into the Mote so deep ; Which made the Father wring his Hands And grievously to weep : Then to the Lady went this Rogue , Who was near dead with Fear ; Yet this vile Wrtch most cruelly , Did drag her by the Hair . And drew her to the very Wall , Which when her Lord did see , Then presently , he cry'd out , And fell upon his Knee . Quoth he if thou wilt save her Life , Whom I do love so dear , I will forgive thee all that's past . Though they concern me near . O save her Life I thee beseech , Oh save her Life I thee pray , And I will grant thee what thou wilt . Demand of me this Day : Well , quoth the Moor , I do regard . The Moan that thou dost make ; If thou wilt grant me what I ask , I'll save her for thy Sake . O save her Life and then demand , Of me what thing thou wilt , Cut of thy Nose , and not one Drop , Of her Blood shall be spilled . With that the Lord he presently took , A Knife within his Hand , And then his Nose he quite cut off , In Place where he did stand . Now I have bought the Lady's Life , He to the Moor did call , Then take her , quoth the wicked Rogue And down he let her fallen , Which when this gallant Lord did see , His Senses all did fail , Yet many sought to save her Life , Yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see her dead . Then he did laugh amain , At them who for their gallant Lord , And Lady did complain . Quoth he , I' know you'll torture me , If that you can me get ; But all you Threats I do not fear , Nor yet regard one Whit Wild Horses shall thy Body tear , I know it to be true ; But I'll prevent you of that Pain . And down himself he threw : Too good a Death for such a Wretch , A Villain void of Fear ; And thus does end as sad a Tale , As ever Man did hear . Newcastle : Printed in this present Year . 