H : 289775 Barbara Allen's CRUELTY : OR THE YOUNG MAN's TRAGEDY . WITH Barbara Allen's Lamentation for her Unkindness to her Lover , and her ownself . Licensed and Entered according to Order . IN Scarlet Town where I was bound , There was a fair Maid dwelling , Whom I had choos'd to be my own , Her name was Barbara Allen . All in the merry Month of May , When green leaves were a springing This young Man on his Deathbed lay , For love of Barbara Allen . He sent his Man unto her then , To Town where she was dwelling , You must come to my Master dear , If you be Barbara Allen . For Death is painted in his Face , Sorrows in him are dwelling ; Thou must come to my Master dear , If you be Barbara Allen . If Death be painted in his Face , And Sorrows in him dwelling ; Then little better shall he be , For bonny Barbara Allen . So slowly , slowly , she came to him , So slowly she came to him , And all she said when she came there , Young Man I think you're dying . He turned his Face unto her then , If you be Barbara Allen ; My Dear , said he , come pity me , On my Deathbed I'm lying . If on your Deathbed you be lying , What's that to Barbara Allen ; I cannot keep you from grim Death , So farewell Barbara Allen . He turn'd his Face unto the Wall , And Death came creeping to him , Adieu , adieu , and adieu to all , Adieu to Barbara Allen . And as she was walking one Day , She herd the Bells' a ringing , And they did seem to ring to her , Unworthy Barbara Allen . She turn'd herself round about , And spy'd the Corpse a coming , Lay down , lay down the corpse , she said That I may look upon him . And all the while she looked on , So loudly she lay laughing ; While all her Friends cry'd out amain , Unworthy Barbara Allen . When he was dead and laid in grave , Then Death came creeping to her . O Mother ! Mother ! make my Bed , His Death does quite undo me . Hard hearted Creature that I was , To slight one that lov'd dearly ; I wish I'd been more kind to him , In Time of his Life when near me . So this maid at last she did die , Who would be buried by him ; Repented herself before she dy'd , That e'er she did deny him . As she was lying down to die , A sad feu'd then she fell in ; She said , I pray take warning by Hard hearted Barbara Allen . Newcastle : Printed in this present Year . H : 289775 Barbara Allen's CRUELTY : OR THE YOUNG MAN's TRAGEDY . WITH Barbara Allen's Lamentation for her Unkindness to her Lover , and her ownself . Licensed and Entered according to Order . IN Scarlet Town where I was bound , There was a fair Maid dwelling , Whom I had choos'd to be my own , Her name was Barbara Allen . All in the merry Month of May , When green leaves were a springing This young Man on his Deathbed lay , For love of Barbara Allen . He sent his Man unto her then , To Town where she was dwelling , You must come to my Master dear , If you be Barbara Allen . For Death is painted in his Face , Sorrows in him are dwelling ; Thou must come to my Master dear , If you be Barbara Allen . If Death be painted in his Face , And Sorrows in him dwelling ; Then little better shall he be , For bonny Barbara Allen . So slowly , slowly , she came to him , So slowly she came to him , And all she said when she came there , Young Man I think you're dying . He turned his Face unto her then , If you be Barbara Allen ; My Dear , said he , come pity me , On my Deathbed I'm lying . If on your Deathbed you be lying , What's that to Barbara Allen ; I cannot keep you from grim Death , So farewell Barbara Allen . He turn'd his Face unto the Wall , And Death came creeping to him , Adieu , adieu , and adieu to all , Adieu to Barbara Allen . And as she was walking one Day , She herd the Bells' a ringing , And they did seem to ring to her , Unworthy Barbara Allen . She turn'd herself round about , And spy'd the Corpse a coming , Lay down , lay down the corpse , she said That I may look upon him . And all the while she looked on , So loudly she lay laughing ; While all her Friends cry'd out amain , Unworthy Barbara Allen . When he was dead and laid in grave , Then Death came creeping to her . O Mother ! Mother ! make my Bed , His Death does quite undo me . Hard hearted Creature that I was , To slight one that lov'd dearly ; I wish I'd been more kind to him , In Time of his Life when near me . So this maid at last she did die , Who would be buried by him ; Repented herself before she dy'd , That e'er she did deny him . As she was lying down to die , A sad feu'd then she fell in ; She said , I pray take warning by Hard hearted Barbara Allen . Newcastle : Printed in this present Year . 