H : 289773 A Courtly New BALLAD of the Princely Wooing of the Fair Maid of London , by King EDWARD . Tune of , Bonny sweet Robin . FAIR Angel of England thy Beauty most bright Is all my Heart's Pleasure , my Joy , and Delight ; Then grant me fair Lady thy true Lore to be , That I may say welcome , good Fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her Love , By gentle Persuasions her Fancy will move ; Then be not entreated , fair Lady , in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lies alone , Is vowed to Chastity , being but one ; But be not , my Dearest , so chaste in desire , lest thou like the phoenix dost Penance in fire . But alas ! gentle Lady , I pity your State , In being resolved to live without Mate ; For if of our Courting the Pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with Scorn and Disdain ; But if you will grant your goodwill unto me , You shall be advanced to Princely Degree . Promotions and Honour may often entice The chastest that live , tho' never so nice ; What Woman so worthy but could be content , To live in Palaces where Princes frequent ? Two Brides young and princely to Church I have led , Two Ladies now lately have decked my Bed ; Yet hath thy Love taken more Root in my Heart , Than all the Contentment's , whereof I had Part. Your gentle Heart cannot Men's Hearts much abide , And Women least angry when most they do chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want Mercy , and poor Women Strength . I grant that fair Ladies may poor Men resist , And Princes may conquer and woo when they list , A King may command them to lie by his Side , Who's Features deserveth to be a King's Bride . In granting your Love you shall purchase Renown , Your Head shall be crown'd with England's Crown , Thy Garments most gallant of Gold shall be wrought , If true Love with Treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of Honour shall wait on her Train , Most richly attir'd with Scarlet in grain , My Chamber most princely thy Person shall keep , Where Virgins with Music shall rock thee asleep . If there's any Pleasure thy Heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy Heart to content , For Kings gallant Courts where Princes do dwell , Afford such sweet Pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy Bosom those Words I have said , And grant a King Favour your true Love to be , That I may say , Welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair Maid of London's Answer to King Edwar [ worser ] O Wanton King Edward thy Labour's in vain , To follow the Pleasures thou canst not attain , With getting thou losest , and having dost want it , The which if thou purchase , is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtain it , thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone ; But if of my Jewel a King do deceive me , No King can restore though a Kingdom he give me . My Colour is changed since thou see me last , My Favour is vanish'd , my Beauty is past , The Rose-red Blushes that sat in my Cheeks , To Paleness is turned , which all Men dislikes . I pass not for Princes for love I protest , The Name of a Virgin contents me best , I have not deserved to lie by his Side , Nor yet to be counted so , King Edward's Bride . The Name of a Princess I never did crave , No such Type of Honour thy Handmaid will have , My Breast shall not harbour so lofty a Thought , Nor be with rich Proffers to Wattonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our Sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair Court , Such Heaps of deep Sorrows she never had seen , Nor tasted the Rage of so jealous a Queen . All Men have their Freedom to show their Intent , They win not a Woman except she consent ; Who then can impute to them any Fault , Who still go upright until Men do halt . 'Tis counted a Kindness in Men for to try , And Virtue in Women the same to deny ; For Women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If Woman and Modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good Name and Credit for ever ; And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , E're any Man knows my Body's defil'd . No , no , my Reverend Father's Tears , Too deep and Impression upon my Heart bears , Nor shall his bright Honour that Blot for me have , To bring his Gray Hairs with Grief to the Grave . The Heavens forbear that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie ; If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My Heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with Pity and weep on my Tomb , Then for my Birth curb my dear Mother's Womb , That brought such a Blossom that stained the Tree , With wanton Desires that shame her and me . Leave me most noble King , tempt not in vain , My milkwhite Affection with Lewdness to stain , Though England will give me no Comforts at all , Yet England will give me a sad Burial . H : 289773 A Courtly New BALLAD of the Princely Wooing of the Fair Maid of London , by King EDWARD . Tune of , Bonny sweet Robin . FAIR Angel of England thy Beauty most bright Is all my Heart's Pleasure , my Joy , and Delight ; Then grant me fair Lady thy true Lore to be , That I may say welcome , good Fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her Love , By gentle Persuasions her Fancy will move ; Then be not entreated , fair Lady , in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lies alone , Is vowed to Chastity , being but one ; But be not , my Dearest , so chaste in desire , lest thou like the phoenix dost Penance in fire . But alas ! gentle Lady , I pity your State , In being resolved to live without Mate ; For if of our Courting the Pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with Scorn and Disdain ; But if you will grant your goodwill unto me , You shall be advanced to Princely Degree . Promotions and Honour may often entice The chastest that live , tho' never so nice ; What Woman so worthy but could be content , To live in Palaces where Princes frequent ? Two Brides young and princely to Church I have led , Two Ladies now lately have decked my Bed ; Yet hath thy Love taken more Root in my Heart , Than all the Contentment's , whereof I had Part. Your gentle Heart cannot Men's Hearts much abide , And Women least angry when most they do chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want Mercy , and poor Women Strength . I grant that fair Ladies may poor Men resist , And Princes may conquer and woo when they list , A King may command them to lie by his Side , Who's Features deserveth to be a King's Bride . In granting your Love you shall purchase Renown , Your Head shall be crown'd with England's Crown , Thy Garments most gallant of Gold shall be wrought , If true Love with Treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of Honour shall wait on her Train , Most richly attir'd with Scarlet in grain , My Chamber most princely thy Person shall keep , Where Virgins with Music shall rock thee asleep . If there's any Pleasure thy Heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy Heart to content , For Kings gallant Courts where Princes do dwell , Afford such sweet Pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy Bosom those Words I have said , And grant a King Favour your true Love to be , That I may say , Welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair Maid of London's Answer to King Edwar [ worser ] O Wanton King Edward thy Labour's in vain , To follow the Pleasures thou canst not attain , With getting thou losest , and having dost want it , The which if thou purchase , is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtain it , thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone ; But if of my Jewel a King do deceive me , No King can restore though a Kingdom he give me . My Colour is changed since thou see me last , My Favour is vanish'd , my Beauty is past , The Rose-red Blushes that sat in my Cheeks , To Paleness is turned , which all Men dislikes . I pass not for Princes for love I protest , The Name of a Virgin contents me best , I have not deserved to lie by his Side , Nor yet to be counted so , King Edward's Bride . The Name of a Princess I never did crave , No such Type of Honour thy Handmaid will have , My Breast shall not harbour so lofty a Thought , Nor be with rich Proffers to Wattonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our Sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair Court , Such Heaps of deep Sorrows she never had seen , Nor tasted the Rage of so jealous a Queen . All Men have their Freedom to show their Intent , They win not a Woman except she consent ; Who then can impute to them any Fault , Who still go upright until Men do halt . 'Tis counted a Kindness in Men for to try , And Virtue in Women the same to deny ; For Women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If Woman and Modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good Name and Credit for ever ; And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , E're any Man knows my Body's defil'd . No , no , my Reverend Father's Tears , Too deep and Impression upon my Heart bears , Nor shall his bright Honour that Blot for me have , To bring his Gray Hairs with Grief to the Grave . The Heavens forbear that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie ; If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My Heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with Pity and weep on my Tomb , Then for my Birth curb my dear Mother's Womb , That brought such a Blossom that stained the Tree , With wanton Desires that shame her and me . Leave me most noble King , tempt not in vain , My milkwhite Affection with Lewdness to stain , Though England will give me no Comforts at all , Yet England will give me a sad Burial . 