H : 18337a The tragical end and death of the Lord James Regent of Scotland , lately set forth in Scottish , and printed at Edinburgh . 1570. And now partly turned into English . JAMES Earl of Murray Regent of renown Now lies dead , and woefully put down , Murdered without mercy , mourning for remaid Who lost his life in Lythquo by a Clown , Guiltless God wot , betrayed in to that town . Was slain by gunshot , and suddenly put to death , Done by the Papists our foes , through fellonous faith . Hangman to Harry , now Burrio to their brother , Well may this murder manifest the tother . What wight alive would not lament his loss ? Woe is me to want him , is the common voice : For such a Prince shall never poor man have , Killed by a Traitor , stealing upon him close , Purposing of purpose , life for life to loose , But no comparison betwixt a Kings son and a Knave Sith he is gone , we cannot again him crave . Through all our realm I dare well make this choice , Reigned not his fellow since buried was the Bruise . To keep good rule he road , and took no rest , Both South and North , and sometime East and West , All to decore our common wealth men know : By whom let us see , was Pirates so oppressed ? Or yet the thieves so thrown down and dressed ? Argyle and Huntlye hid them both for awe , And when he might , he was tendant at Law , Twice on a day , and sleeped not in sleuth , To see no fauters should bear them by the truth . Of this foul fact suppose our foes be fain , Yet after Moyses , Josua comes again , To guide the people , give glory therefore to GOD . Should they succeed , that have Lord James so slain ? Beware of that , least that you feel the pain , And have your weak ones wyried with the Toad . Think you with reason that such should rule the rod , Which with double murder have made us such ado And with our King would play like cousinage to ? prey , if you please , I warrant you you have need , To keep our King from kankred Kedzochis seed , That daily ways inventes to put him down : His Grandsire slain at Lythquo as I it reed , His Gudsire thrice did leave this land in deed , Harry at midnight murdered in this town , His Cousin now last , and yet they claim the crown . Blind Jocke may guess , if these be godly deeds , Brude by that Bishop in whom this mischiefs breeds Cut of that Papist Prothogal parts , That with his leesings all the Laitie pervartes , Straight join your forces to the fields without fear , Because you take your stoutness all in starts , To Hammilton in haste while you have hearts . Devise some way to pay your men of war , For if they once begun , you need not gather gear . Fight well , and war them , and win the riches thore , And if you do thus , indeed you need no more . Cursed be you both , Bishop and Bothwell each , For this foul deed , your necks the halter stretch , If you two want the withy , they do much wrong you : Lythquo lament , your Burgess may look bleach , In their said time your Burrow rues the leach , Because of this murder lately made among you , For if I thought it helped ought to hang you , So should you die , and set your town on fire , As some part of punishment to assuage Gods ire . Over these two houses for these deeds inding , The hand of GOD does over their heads hing , Them to destroy , I doubt not in these our days : Hepburnis will go to wrack , for wyrring of the King , But Hamiltons fie , this was a fouler thing . Is this your firm religion , yea is , yea is ? Such a time shall come I trow as Thomas says : Herdsmen shall hunt you up through Garranis hill , Casting their Plataeae and let the plough stand still . Apparently these plagues are poured out , To wreak this world , and wot you where about ? Because we want no vice under the heaven : Sith double murder makers seek to rule the rout , With the Ninivites to our GOD let us go cry and shout , For to retreat that sentence justly given . Yet thou good Lord , that judgeth all things even , Sing the peril that over the people stands , Let not their blood be sought at guiltless hands . Now Lords & Lordings assembled in this place , Over long we talk of Tragedies , alas , Away with care , with comfort now conclude : As good in paper , as speak it to your face , If murderers for this gear get any grace , You shall be shent , think on , I say for good , Sith art and part are guilty of his blood , Why should you fear , or favour them for fleiching ? the heard yourselves what Knox spoke at the preaching . First on the fields , make shortly to le [ ? ] We lack but one , and what the worse are we ? Sith GOD was pleased to take him out of pine : All men on mould are marked for to die , In time and place appointed , so was he . Let not in care your couragies decline , For want of one I would not all should tine . Go seek at Roxbrugh when the King was slain And yet one woman won the house again . Sith then by women doughty deeds were done , You Barrons be blithe , and hold your hearts above , And let us hear wherefore you happened hither , They are no great party , and you speed you soon , Albeit that boyed be daily in Denone , Lang or Argyle be gathered in together , When all is done , the Counsel may consider , What is the most those murderers may do , Suppose that Huntly would come & help them to . Had we one head would stoutly undertake it , The Barrons sayes they should be boldly backed , Might they with speediness travel to these towns : Why stand you afeard of Traitors twice detracted ? Think you not shame to hear your Lordship's lacked ? Some fears their flesh , some begins to gather crowns Some hides their heads , some girds them up in gowns Look how your enemies prides them in their spurring Keeping the fields , and frees not in their furring . Woe worth the wives that fostered you and fed , You do nothing love but lie on soften bed , And keep you from cold , with clouts in your shoo : I think great wonder how you can be so dreaded , Or fray at them that last before you fled . Wanting their Queen , sith God is gainst them too . Why lie you here , having here little to do ? The Barrons bids you shortly bide , or else begone , Courage decays if Scotishmen tarry long . Have Lions looks , and then make way forth clear , Be Hannibals , and hoist your hearts with cheer . But be not still , while those Knaves do enclose you . He needs not work that hath one good overseeer , Nor you need fight , so that your hearts were freeer . But by my soul myself could never ruse you : I know well for this crime Christ shall accuse you . For sparing Agag , Saul was punished soar , So shall he you , I dare not say no more . The Lord of hosts that heaven & earth commands , Keep our young King from all unhappy hands , And that good Queen of England , and her Counsel to . the fear the Frenchmen should overlay these lands , But I hear say by some that understands , The Doctors doubt but they have more ado . Our Queen is kept straightly , her power is igo , England will help you , and you will help yourselves , And be the contrair , crave of them nothing else . Thus fare you well , I spare not to offend you , In simple verse this Schedule that I send you , Beseeching you to scan it if you may . Steal you away , the wives will vilypend you , And if you bide , the Barrons will commend you . Best were it I think , we might prevent that day , Their meeting is on Sonday I hear say , In Glasgow town , thinking to fight or flee , It looks well there , you get no more of me . FINIS . H : 18337a The tragical end and death of the Lord James Regent of Scotland , lately set forth in Scottish , and printed at Edinburgh . 1570. And now partly turned into English . JAMES Earl of Murray Regent of renown Now lies dead , and woefully put down , Murdered without mercy , mourning for remaid Who lost his life in Lythquo by a Clown , Guiltless God wot , betrayed in to that town . Was slain by gunshot , and suddenly put to death , Done by the Papists our foes , through fellonous faith . Hangman to Harry , now Burrio to their brother , Well may this murder manifest the tother . What wight alive would not lament his loss ? Woe is me to want him , is the common voice : For such a Prince shall never poor man have , Killed by a Traitor , stealing upon him close , Purposing of purpose , life for life to loose , But no comparison betwixt a Kings son and a Knave Sith he is gone , we cannot again him crave . Through all our realm I dare well make this choice , Reigned not his fellow since buried was the Bruise . To keep good rule he road , and took no rest , Both South and North , and sometime East and West , All to decore our common wealth men know : By whom let us see , was Pirates so oppressed ? Or yet the thieves so thrown down and dressed ? Argyle and Huntlye hid them both for awe , And when he might , he was tendant at Law , Twice on a day , and sleeped not in sleuth , To see no fauters should bear them by the truth . Of this foul fact suppose our foes be fain , Yet after Moyses , Josua comes again , To guide the people , give glory therefore to GOD . Should they succeed , that have Lord James so slain ? Beware of that , least that you feel the pain , And have your weak ones wyried with the Toad . Think you with reason that such should rule the rod , Which with double murder have made us such ado And with our King would play like cousinage to ? prey , if you please , I warrant you you have need , To keep our King from kankred Kedzochis seed , That daily ways inventes to put him down : His Grandsire slain at Lythquo as I it reed , His Gudsire thrice did leave this land in deed , Harry at midnight murdered in this town , His Cousin now last , and yet they claim the crown . Blind Jocke may guess , if these be godly deeds , Brude by that Bishop in whom this mischiefs breeds Cut of that Papist Prothogal parts , That with his leesings all the Laitie pervartes , Straight join your forces to the fields without fear , Because you take your stoutness all in starts , To Hammilton in haste while you have hearts . Devise some way to pay your men of war , For if they once begun , you need not gather gear . Fight well , and war them , and win the riches thore , And if you do thus , indeed you need no more . Cursed be you both , Bishop and Bothwell each , For this foul deed , your necks the halter stretch , If you two want the withy , they do much wrong you : Lythquo lament , your Burgess may look bleach , In their said time your Burrow rues the leach , Because of this murder lately made among you , For if I thought it helped ought to hang you , So should you die , and set your town on fire , As some part of punishment to assuage Gods ire . Over these two houses for these deeds inding , The hand of GOD does over their heads hing , Them to destroy , I doubt not in these our days : Hepburnis will go to wrack , for wyrring of the King , But Hamiltons fie , this was a fouler thing . Is this your firm religion , yea is , yea is ? Such a time shall come I trow as Thomas says : Herdsmen shall hunt you up through Garranis hill , Casting their Plataeae and let the plough stand still . Apparently these plagues are poured out , To wreak this world , and wot you where about ? Because we want no vice under the heaven : Sith double murder makers seek to rule the rout , With the Ninivites to our GOD let us go cry and shout , For to retreat that sentence justly given . Yet thou good Lord , that judgeth all things even , Sing the peril that over the people stands , Let not their blood be sought at guiltless hands . Now Lords & Lordings assembled in this place , Over long we talk of Tragedies , alas , Away with care , with comfort now conclude : As good in paper , as speak it to your face , If murderers for this gear get any grace , You shall be shent , think on , I say for good , Sith art and part are guilty of his blood , Why should you fear , or favour them for fleiching ? the heard yourselves what Knox spoke at the preaching . First on the fields , make shortly to le [ ? ] We lack but one , and what the worse are we ? Sith GOD was pleased to take him out of pine : All men on mould are marked for to die , In time and place appointed , so was he . Let not in care your couragies decline , For want of one I would not all should tine . Go seek at Roxbrugh when the King was slain And yet one woman won the house again . Sith then by women doughty deeds were done , You Barrons be blithe , and hold your hearts above , And let us hear wherefore you happened hither , They are no great party , and you speed you soon , Albeit that boyed be daily in Denone , Lang or Argyle be gathered in together , When all is done , the Counsel may consider , What is the most those murderers may do , Suppose that Huntly would come & help them to . Had we one head would stoutly undertake it , The Barrons sayes they should be boldly backed , Might they with speediness travel to these towns : Why stand you afeard of Traitors twice detracted ? Think you not shame to hear your Lordship's lacked ? Some fears their flesh , some begins to gather crowns Some hides their heads , some girds them up in gowns Look how your enemies prides them in their spurring Keeping the fields , and frees not in their furring . Woe worth the wives that fostered you and fed , You do nothing love but lie on soften bed , And keep you from cold , with clouts in your shoo : I think great wonder how you can be so dreaded , Or fray at them that last before you fled . Wanting their Queen , sith God is gainst them too . Why lie you here , having here little to do ? The Barrons bids you shortly bide , or else begone , Courage decays if Scotishmen tarry long . Have Lions looks , and then make way forth clear , Be Hannibals , and hoist your hearts with cheer . But be not still , while those Knaves do enclose you . He needs not work that hath one good overseeer , Nor you need fight , so that your hearts were freeer . But by my soul myself could never ruse you : I know well for this crime Christ shall accuse you . For sparing Agag , Saul was punished soar , So shall he you , I dare not say no more . The Lord of hosts that heaven & earth commands , Keep our young King from all unhappy hands , And that good Queen of England , and her Counsel to . the fear the Frenchmen should overlay these lands , But I hear say by some that understands , The Doctors doubt but they have more ado . Our Queen is kept straightly , her power is igo , England will help you , and you will help yourselves , And be the contrair , crave of them nothing else . Thus fare you well , I spare not to offend you , In simple verse this Schedule that I send you , Beseeching you to scan it if you may . Steal you away , the wives will vilypend you , And if you bide , the Barrons will commend you . Best were it I think , we might prevent that day , Their meeting is on Sonday I hear say , In Glasgow town , thinking to fight or flee , It looks well there , you get no more of me . FINIS . 