H : 18339 A most excellent new Ditty , wherein is showed the sage sayings , and wise sentences of Salomon : wherein each estate is taught his duty , with singular counsel to his comfort and consolation . To the tune of Wigmoores Galliard . THose that will run a Virtuous raze , and learn the Precepts of the sage Those that true wisdom will embrace and learn to live in youth and age : Let him approach hereto with speed , And to these Lessons give good heed : for bearing well these things away , the Lord will bless them night & day . My Son , say Salomon the wise , if thou true Wisdom wilt attain : Then fear the Lord that rules the skies for so the scripture telleth thee plain . Embrace his word , and him obey : This is the chief and only way : for they that do these things despise , are fools to God , though worldly wise Unto thy Father honour give , and thou shalt surely blessed be : And be obedient while you live , un [ tO ] oh your Mother courteously : Then God will send thee evermore Sufficient wealth , and treasure store : all things shall prosper in thy hand , and long thou shalt enjoy the land . The blessing of thy Father deer , does cause the children's good success : But where the Mother does appear , to curse the children's wickedness , Their whole foundation does decay , Like withered leaves they fallen away : Then all good children learn of me , to love your Parents faithfully . Set not thy mind on worldly wealth , nor put thy confidence therein : For Riches does consume by stealth , and Covetousness is counted sin : For while thou livest on the earth , Thou art uncertain of thy death : and when that death does stop thy wind then must thou leave thy goods behind Be friendly unto every man , but unto few familiar be : And try thy Friend if that thou can , his inward thoughts to prove and see : And if thou find him just and true , Change not thy old Friend for a new : For many promise much indeed , but clean forsake thee in thy need . If thou hast Sons , instruct them well but on thy Daughter never smile : Their wanton ways do far excel , let no affection thee beguile : With due correction love them still , And give not them their wanton will : for if that they do stubborn grow , their duty then they will not know . Give honour to the Aged sort , and to thy Betters always bow : So shalt thou win a good report , for God him self does him allow : Of hateful Pride likewise be aware , And have and eye to after care : be not too rash in any thing , for that will soon repentance bring . Lend not thy goods to Mighty men , whose countenance passes thy degree For it is hard to get again , as we by daily proof may see . For other men give not thy word , No further then thou canst afford : lest afterwards thou chance to rue , and pay the debt when it is due . With him that is a Majestrate , in any case go not to law : lest thou repent the same too late , for he will hold thee still in awe : Be always wary in thy words , For spiteful tongues are evil swords and look to whom thou dost impart , the thoughts and secrets of thy heart . Be never jeolous of thy Wife , lest she thereby do mischief learn , For so thou shalt soon purchase strife : then wisely do each thing discern . And do no evil occasion give , But lovingly together live : For where the man and wife do hate , the curse of God waits at thy gate . On Harlots cast not thou thy mind , lest thou thereby thy self consume : And waste thy riches in the wind , while thou in fancy fret and fume : Their foul enticements brings death And poison comes from their breath : their eyes are wandering too and from , and every one their fashions know . Praise no woman for her beauty's sake , nor discommend no man by ligh And with thy tongue no lying make , fulfil thy promise just and right . Be merciful unto the poor , And God will thee reward therefore : Keep not the Laborers wages back but comfort such as comfort lack . Grieve not the heavy hearted man , nor joy not at thy enemies harm : Rebuke thy Brother friendly than , against no man use open charm : Nor credit thou each tale in haste , Till trial prove the matter waste . From hateful slander keep thy tongue & work for age , while thou art young Three things there are which God does hate as holy Scripture do declare : A man too proud in beggars state , a Rich man for to lie and swear : To see and Old-man given to lus And those of God are sure accursed . The lying tongue the soul does quell but pride & lust throws down to hell . While you are living , call for grace , thy self is like the fading Flower : Death comes stealing on a pace , thou shalt not know the day nor hour . Thy speech at all times shall not last , Use well the time that now thou has and from repentance do not stay , thou canst no time with death delay . If thou consider well the same , and bear these Lessons in thy mind : And thereunto thy self do frame , great comfort surely thou shalt find . Plant well these sayings in thy heart , And from these precepts never star So shalt thou live in perfect peace , and God will bless thee with increase . FINIS . At London printed by W.W. for TO . P.H : 18339 A most excellent new Ditty , wherein is showed the sage sayings , and wise sentences of Salomon : wherein each estate is taught his duty , with singular counsel to his comfort and consolation . To the tune of Wigmoores Galliard . THose that will run a Virtuous raze , and learn the Precepts of the sage Those that true wisdom will embrace and learn to live in youth and age : Let him approach hereto with speed , And to these Lessons give good heed : for bearing well these things away , the Lord will bless them night & day . My Son , say Salomon the wise , if thou true Wisdom wilt attain : Then fear the Lord that rules the skies for so the scripture telleth thee plain . Embrace his word , and him obey : This is the chief and only way : for they that do these things despise , are fools to God , though worldly wise Unto thy Father honour give , and thou shalt surely blessed be : And be obedient while you live , un [ tO ] oh your Mother courteously : Then God will send thee evermore Sufficient wealth , and treasure store : all things shall prosper in thy hand , and long thou shalt enjoy the land . The blessing of thy Father deer , does cause the children's good success : But where the Mother does appear , to curse the children's wickedness , Their whole foundation does decay , Like withered leaves they fallen away : Then all good children learn of me , to love your Parents faithfully . Set not thy mind on worldly wealth , nor put thy confidence therein : For Riches does consume by stealth , and Covetousness is counted sin : For while thou livest on the earth , Thou art uncertain of thy death : and when that death does stop thy wind then must thou leave thy goods behind Be friendly unto every man , but unto few familiar be : And try thy Friend if that thou can , his inward thoughts to prove and see : And if thou find him just and true , Change not thy old Friend for a new : For many promise much indeed , but clean forsake thee in thy need . If thou hast Sons , instruct them well but on thy Daughter never smile : Their wanton ways do far excel , let no affection thee beguile : With due correction love them still , And give not them their wanton will : for if that they do stubborn grow , their duty then they will not know . Give honour to the Aged sort , and to thy Betters always bow : So shalt thou win a good report , for God him self does him allow : Of hateful Pride likewise be aware , And have and eye to after care : be not too rash in any thing , for that will soon repentance bring . Lend not thy goods to Mighty men , whose countenance passes thy degree For it is hard to get again , as we by daily proof may see . For other men give not thy word , No further then thou canst afford : lest afterwards thou chance to rue , and pay the debt when it is due . With him that is a Majestrate , in any case go not to law : lest thou repent the same too late , for he will hold thee still in awe : Be always wary in thy words , For spiteful tongues are evil swords and look to whom thou dost impart , the thoughts and secrets of thy heart . Be never jeolous of thy Wife , lest she thereby do mischief learn , For so thou shalt soon purchase strife : then wisely do each thing discern . And do no evil occasion give , But lovingly together live : For where the man and wife do hate , the curse of God waits at thy gate . On Harlots cast not thou thy mind , lest thou thereby thy self consume : And waste thy riches in the wind , while thou in fancy fret and fume : Their foul enticements brings death And poison comes from their breath : their eyes are wandering too and from , and every one their fashions know . Praise no woman for her beauty's sake , nor discommend no man by ligh And with thy tongue no lying make , fulfil thy promise just and right . Be merciful unto the poor , And God will thee reward therefore : Keep not the Laborers wages back but comfort such as comfort lack . Grieve not the heavy hearted man , nor joy not at thy enemies harm : Rebuke thy Brother friendly than , against no man use open charm : Nor credit thou each tale in haste , Till trial prove the matter waste . From hateful slander keep thy tongue & work for age , while thou art young Three things there are which God does hate as holy Scripture do declare : A man too proud in beggars state , a Rich man for to lie and swear : To see and Old-man given to lus And those of God are sure accursed . The lying tongue the soul does quell but pride & lust throws down to hell . While you are living , call for grace , thy self is like the fading Flower : Death comes stealing on a pace , thou shalt not know the day nor hour . Thy speech at all times shall not last , Use well the time that now thou has and from repentance do not stay , thou canst no time with death delay . If thou consider well the same , and bear these Lessons in thy mind : And thereunto thy self do frame , great comfort surely thou shalt find . Plant well these sayings in thy heart , And from these precepts never star So shalt thou live in perfect peace , and God will bless thee with increase . FINIS . At London printed by W.W. for T.P. 