H : 289778 A Warning Piece to England against Pride and Wickedness : Being , The Fallen of Queen Eleanor , Wife to Edward the First , King of England , who for her Pride , and God's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-Cross , and rose up with Life at Queen-hith . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous . WHEN Edward was in England King , The First of all that Name , Proud Eleanor he made his Queen , A stately Spanish Dame ; Whose wicked Life and sinful Pride , Through England did excel , To dainty Dame and gallant Maid , This Queen was known full well . She was the first that did invent In Coaches brave to ride ; She was the first that brought this Land , To deadly since of Pride . No English Taylor here could serve , To make her rich Attire , But sent for Tailors into Spain , To feed her Vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange and new , With golden Garments bright , With Farthingale and mighty Stuff , With Gowns of Rich delight . Your London Dams in Spanish Pride , Did Flourish every where ; Our English Men like Women then , Did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child , both Maid and Wife , Were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then , Our English Men did stain ; Whereat the Queen did much despite , To see your English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see As any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King that every Man , That wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and polled all , Or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , And soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , Should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please the Queen , Proclaimed through the Land. That every Man that wore long Hair , Should poll him out of Hand ; But yet this Spaniard not content , To Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , Against all Law and Right . That every Woman kind should have Their Right Breast cut away , And then with burning Irons sear'd , The Blood to staunch and stay . King Edward then perceiving well , Her spite to Woman kind , Devised soon by Policy , And turn'd her bloody Mind . And sent for burning Irons straight , All sparkling hight to see , And said , Oh Queen , come on thy Way , I will begin with thee . Which Words did much displease the Queen , That Penance to begin ; But asked him Pardon on her Knees , Who gave her Grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass , Along brave London Streets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , In stately Sort she meets ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , Unto the Church they went , To give God thanks that to th' Lord Mayor , A noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , To see that any one Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , Except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , Within her bloody Mind , And practis'd still most secretly , To kill this Lady kind . Unto the Mayor of London then , She sent her Letters straight , To send this Lady to the Court , Upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came Before proud Eleanor's Face , She stripped her from her rich Array , And kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , And kept her Secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , That ever Man did hear . She made her wash , she made her starch , She made her drudge always , She made her Nurse up Children small , And labour Night and Day . But this contented not the Queen , But shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , At Twelve o'Clock at Night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , The Queen in angry Mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , That sucked away her Blood . Thus dy'd the Mayor of London's Wife , Most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud , As after shall appear . The Wheat that made her Bred , Was bolted twenty Times ; The Food that fed this stately Dame , Was boiled in costly Wines . The Water that did spring from Ground , She would not touch at all , But wash her Hands with due of Heaven , That on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her Body many a Time , In Fountain fill'd with Milk , And every Day did change Attire , In costly Median Silk . But coming then to London back , Within her Coach of Gold , A Tempest strange within the Skies , This Queen did there behold ; Out of which Storm she could not go , But there remain'd a Space , Four Horses could not stir the Coach A Foot out of the Place . A Judgement lately sent from Heaven , For shedding guiltless Blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew The London Lady good ; King Edward then , as Wisdom will'd , Accus'd her of that Deed ; But she deny'd , and wish'd that God Would send his Wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a Thing , Her Heart did ever think ; She wished the Ground would open wide , And she therein might sink . With that at Charing-Cross she sunk Into the Ground alive , And after rose with Life again , In London at Queen-hith . When after that she languished soar , Full twenty Days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , Her guilty Hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , She had a baseborn Child , Whose sinful Lust and Wickedness , Her Marriagebed defil'd . Thus have you herd the Fallen of Pride , A just Reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves , God's Vengeance daily win Beware of Pride you courtly Dams , Both Wives and Maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your Mind , That Pride must have a Fallen . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289778 A Warning Piece to England against Pride and Wickedness : Being , The Fallen of Queen Eleanor , Wife to Edward the First , King of England , who for her Pride , and God's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-Cross , and rose up with Life at Queen-hith . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous . WHEN Edward was in England King , The First of all that Name , Proud Eleanor he made his Queen , A stately Spanish Dame ; Whose wicked Life and sinful Pride , Through England did excel , To dainty Dame and gallant Maid , This Queen was known full well . She was the first that did invent In Coaches brave to ride ; She was the first that brought this Land , To deadly since of Pride . No English Taylor here could serve , To make her rich Attire , But sent for Tailors into Spain , To feed her Vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange and new , With golden Garments bright , With Farthingale and mighty Stuff , With Gowns of Rich delight . Your London Dams in Spanish Pride , Did Flourish every where ; Our English Men like Women then , Did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child , both Maid and Wife , Were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then , Our English Men did stain ; Whereat the Queen did much despite , To see your English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see As any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King that every Man , That wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and polled all , Or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , And soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , Should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please the Queen , Proclaimed through the Land. That every Man that wore long Hair , Should poll him out of Hand ; But yet this Spaniard not content , To Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , Against all Law and Right . That every Woman kind should have Their Right Breast cut away , And then with burning Irons sear'd , The Blood to staunch and stay . King Edward then perceiving well , Her spite to Woman kind , Devised soon by Policy , And turn'd her bloody Mind . And sent for burning Irons straight , All sparkling hight to see , And said , Oh Queen , come on thy Way , I will begin with thee . Which Words did much displease the Queen , That Penance to begin ; But asked him Pardon on her Knees , Who gave her Grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass , Along brave London Streets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , In stately Sort she meets ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , Unto the Church they went , To give God thanks that to th' Lord Mayor , A noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , To see that any one Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , Except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , Within her bloody Mind , And practis'd still most secretly , To kill this Lady kind . Unto the Mayor of London then , She sent her Letters straight , To send this Lady to the Court , Upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came Before proud Eleanor's Face , She stripped her from her rich Array , And kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , And kept her Secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , That ever Man did hear . She made her wash , she made her starch , She made her drudge always , She made her Nurse up Children small , And labour Night and Day . But this contented not the Queen , But shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , At Twelve o'Clock at Night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , The Queen in angry Mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , That sucked away her Blood . Thus dy'd the Mayor of London's Wife , Most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud , As after shall appear . The Wheat that made her Bred , Was bolted twenty Times ; The Food that fed this stately Dame , Was boiled in costly Wines . The Water that did spring from Ground , She would not touch at all , But wash her Hands with due of Heaven , That on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her Body many a Time , In Fountain fill'd with Milk , And every Day did change Attire , In costly Median Silk . But coming then to London back , Within her Coach of Gold , A Tempest strange within the Skies , This Queen did there behold ; Out of which Storm she could not go , But there remain'd a Space , Four Horses could not stir the Coach A Foot out of the Place . A Judgement lately sent from Heaven , For shedding guiltless Blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew The London Lady good ; King Edward then , as Wisdom will'd , Accus'd her of that Deed ; But she deny'd , and wish'd that God Would send his Wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a Thing , Her Heart did ever think ; She wished the Ground would open wide , And she therein might sink . With that at Charing-Cross she sunk Into the Ground alive , And after rose with Life again , In London at Queen-hith . When after that she languished soar , Full twenty Days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , Her guilty Hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , She had a baseborn Child , Whose sinful Lust and Wickedness , Her Marriagebed defil'd . Thus have you herd the Fallen of Pride , A just Reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves , God's Vengeance daily win Beware of Pride you courtly Dams , Both Wives and Maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your Mind , That Pride must have a Fallen . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 