H : 18341 A most notable and worthy example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Father : and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the tune of Lord Darley . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to reed , A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Farmer and his Son , this rare example stands : which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands , This Farmer in the Country dwelled , whose substance did excel : He sent therefore his eldest Son in Paris for to dwell : Where he became a Merchant man , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the world at will , his mind was wholly bent , To gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spen Yea such excessive riotousness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cract and he in prison case And every man against him then , did set his actium fast . There lay he locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debts to pay . And lying in this careful case , his eyes with tears besprent , The lewdness for his former life , too late he did repent . And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears my loving Father deer , And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaints to hear . Forgive the foul offences all of thy unthrifty Son : which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good Father take remorse , on this my extreme need : And succour his distressed state , whose heart for woe does bleed . In doleful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fas Whom my most cruel creditors , in Prison so have cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery , some shift sweet Father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown the boards my softest bed : And flinty stones for pillows serves , to rest my troubled head . My garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold : And crawling vermin eats my flesh , most grievous to behold . Dear Father come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had , perused this written scroll : But trickling tears along his cheeks from watery eyes did roll : Alas my Son , my Son quoth he in whom I joyed mos Thou shalt not long in prison be , what ever it does cost . Two hundred heads of well fed beasts he changed then for gold : Foure hundred quarters eke of corn , for silver there he sold . But all the same could not suffice , that heinous debt to pay : Till he at length constrained was , to fell his land away . Then was his Son released quite , his debt discharged clean , And left likewise as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home , who for to help his Son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he live poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry corpses to feed : His Son mean time in silks did swim whose substance now was such : That sure within the City walls , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches in did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful pride : But it befell upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his Son he did repair , for some relief at last . And being come unto his house , in very poor array , It chanced so that with his Son , great states should dine that day . The poor old man with Hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his Son that at the gate , his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones , within the grave was laid : What Rascal then is that quoth he , that staineth so my state ? I charge thee Porter presently to drive him from my gate . Which answer when the old man herd he was in mind dismayed : He wept , he wailed , he wrong his hands and thus at length he said . O cursed wretch , and most unkind , thou worker of my woe : Thou monster to humanity , and eke thy Father's foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state : And dost thou now so doggedly , enforce me from thy gate ? And have I wrong'd thy brothers all from thrall , to set thee free ? And brought myself to beggars state and all to succour thee . Woe worth the time when first of all thy body I espied : Which hast in hardness of thy heart , thy Father's face denied . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his son with all his friends were settled down to meat . For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out and leapt in his face . Then did the wretch his fault confess and for his Father sent , And then his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by this , obedient hearts to show : And honour still your Parents deer , for God commandeth so . And think how God did turn his meat to poisoned Toads indeed : Which did his Father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . H : 18341 A most notable and worthy example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Father : and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the tune of Lord Darley . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to reed , A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Farmer and his Son , this rare example stands : which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands , This Farmer in the Country dwelled , whose substance did excel : He sent therefore his eldest Son in Paris for to dwell : Where he became a Merchant man , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the world at will , his mind was wholly bent , To gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spen Yea such excessive riotousness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cract and he in prison case And every man against him then , did set his actium fast . There lay he locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debts to pay . And lying in this careful case , his eyes with tears besprent , The lewdness for his former life , too late he did repent . And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears my loving Father deer , And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaints to hear . Forgive the foul offences all of thy unthrifty Son : which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good Father take remorse , on this my extreme need : And succour his distressed state , whose heart for woe does bleed . In doleful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fas Whom my most cruel creditors , in Prison so have cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery , some shift sweet Father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown the boards my softest bed : And flinty stones for pillows serves , to rest my troubled head . My garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold : And crawling vermin eats my flesh , most grievous to behold . Dear Father come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had , perused this written scroll : But trickling tears along his cheeks from watery eyes did roll : Alas my Son , my Son quoth he in whom I joyed mos Thou shalt not long in prison be , what ever it does cost . Two hundred heads of well fed beasts he changed then for gold : Foure hundred quarters eke of corn , for silver there he sold . But all the same could not suffice , that heinous debt to pay : Till he at length constrained was , to fell his land away . Then was his Son released quite , his debt discharged clean , And left likewise as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home , who for to help his Son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he live poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry corpses to feed : His Son mean time in silks did swim whose substance now was such : That sure within the City walls , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches in did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful pride : But it befell upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his Son he did repair , for some relief at last . And being come unto his house , in very poor array , It chanced so that with his Son , great states should dine that day . The poor old man with Hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his Son that at the gate , his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones , within the grave was laid : What Rascal then is that quoth he , that staineth so my state ? I charge thee Porter presently to drive him from my gate . Which answer when the old man herd he was in mind dismayed : He wept , he wailed , he wrong his hands and thus at length he said . O cursed wretch , and most unkind , thou worker of my woe : Thou monster to humanity , and eke thy Father's foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state : And dost thou now so doggedly , enforce me from thy gate ? And have I wrong'd thy brothers all from thrall , to set thee free ? And brought myself to beggars state and all to succour thee . Woe worth the time when first of all thy body I espied : Which hast in hardness of thy heart , thy Father's face denied . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his son with all his friends were settled down to meat . For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out and leapt in his face . Then did the wretch his fault confess and for his Father sent , And then his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by this , obedient hearts to show : And honour still your Parents deer , for God commandeth so . And think how God did turn his meat to poisoned Toads indeed : Which did his Father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . 