H : 18343 [ Some f ] yne gloves devised for Newyeres gifts to teach young peop [ le to ] know good from evil whereby they may learn the x commandments at their fingers ends . x . other good lessons be written within the fingers , the tree of Virtues with her branches in the right palm and the Rout of vices in the left , with a declaration of the other pyctures following in meeter . ' WHo loves and would virtues increase and vices eke to over throw , Lo hear be gloves that will the teach all evil in time to say full low , Draw never therefore and buy apace For newyeres gifts you may them give To old and young in every place There is no man will the reprove . Now this matter to make thee understand , As men heart is harden gods truth to receive : So to frozen ground it is compared Which in no wise the plow can reve . As the sear tree leaves that falls to ground , The word of god calls us to grace , If we forgetful be not found Our wealth shall grow in every place . But where malice and falsehood still does reign With us in this clear gospels light , There look for storm , tempest , and rain , As plagues from heaven both day and night . Fear god therefore and love him eke , With labour true the Penny win , And to everlasting joy and bliss , As before is said , it will the bring . The x Commandments of the lord , At thy fingers ends here mayest thou lere , Divided from one hand to the other , As title tells in mind to bear . The fingers tenne yet more does teach , Tenne virtues for to bear in heart , The which if you keep well in mind , From all evil ways thou shalt revarte . More by these gloves thou mayest well see , The seam is broke by impatient breath , That vice to restrain I advice thee , Eke time and hour remember death . Within the Palms thou mayest well learn Virtues to know in thy right hand And vices in the left to over turn , If with shield of faith , thou stoutly stand . Detestation of sin , and desire to do good As braselettes fine I advice thee hold , With devout prayer for mercy and grace , Then hope well thou mayest be bold . Through Christ our saviour safe to be , And his just judgement to embrace , This is the trust I have truly Within the stars to have a place . And ride aloft above the skies In Quintessence I hope to dwell , Where joy and solace shall never cease All worldly pleasures they do excel . God save the Queen . Finis . quod T. T. Imprinted at London by Wylliam PowellH : 18343 [ Some f ] yne gloves devised for Newyeres gifts to teach young peop [ le to ] know good from evil whereby they may learn the x commandments at their fingers ends . x . other good lessons be written within the fingers , the tree of Virtues with her branches in the right palm and the Rout of vices in the left , with a declaration of the other pyctures following in meeter . ' WHo loves and would virtues increase and vices eke to over throw , Lo hear be gloves that will the teach all evil in time to say full low , Draw never therefore and buy apace For newyeres gifts you may them give To old and young in every place There is no man will the reprove . Now this matter to make thee understand , As men heart is harden gods truth to receive : So to frozen ground it is compared Which in no wise the plow can reve . As the sear tree leaves that falls to ground , The word of god calls us to grace , If we forgetful be not found Our wealth shall grow in every place . But where malice and falsehood still does reign With us in this clear gospels light , There look for storm , tempest , and rain , As plagues from heaven both day and night . Fear god therefore and love him eke , With labour true the Penny win , And to everlasting joy and bliss , As before is said , it will the bring . The x Commandments of the lord , At thy fingers ends here mayest thou lere , Divided from one hand to the other , As title tells in mind to bear . The fingers tenne yet more does teach , Tenne virtues for to bear in heart , The which if you keep well in mind , From all evil ways thou shalt revarte . More by these gloves thou mayest well see , The seam is broke by impatient breath , That vice to restrain I advice thee , Eke time and hour remember death . Within the Palms thou mayest well learn Virtues to know in thy right hand And vices in the left to over turn , If with shield of faith , thou stoutly stand . Detestation of sin , and desire to do good As braselettes fine I advice thee hold , With devout prayer for mercy and grace , Then hope well thou mayest be bold . Through Christ our saviour safe to be , And his just judgement to embrace , This is the trust I have truly Within the stars to have a place . And ride aloft above the skies In Quintessence I hope to dwell , Where joy and solace shall never cease All worldly pleasures they do excel . God save the Queen . Finis . quod T. T. Imprinted at London by Wylliam Powell 