H : 289783 The Lamentable and Tragical HISTORY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS ; WITH The Fallen of his Sons in the Wars of the Goths : With the Manner of the Ravishment of his Daughter Lavinia , by the Empress's two Sons , through the Means of a bloody Moor , taken by the Sword of Titus , in the War : With his Revenge upon their cruel and inhu - mane Act. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc YOU noble Minds , and famous Martial Wights , That in Defence of Native Countries fights ; Give ear to me that ten Years fought for Rome , Yet reap'd Disgrace at my returning Home . In Room I liv'd in Fame full threescore Years , My Name beloved was of all my Peers ; Full Five and Twenty valiant Sons I had , Whose forward Virtues made their Father glad . For when Rome's Foes their warlike Forces felt , Against them still my Sons and I were sent ; Against the Goths full ten Years weary War We spent , receiving many a bloody Scar. Just Two and Twenty of my Sons were slave , Before I did return to Room again ; Of Five and Twenty Sons I brought but Three Alive , the stately Tower of Room to see . When Wars were done , I Conquest home did bring , And did present my Prisoners to the King : The Queen of Goths , her Sons , and eke a Moor , Who did such Murders , like were none before . The Emperor did make the Queen his Wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife ; The Moor with her two Sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room might be allow'd . The Moor so pleased this new Empress's Eye , That she consented to him secretly ; For to abuse her Husband's Marriage Bed , And so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she , whose Thoughts to murder was inclin'd , Consented with the Moor , with bloody Mind , Against myself , my Kin , and all my Friends , In cruel Sort to bring them to their Ends. So when in Age I thought to live in Peace , Both Care and Grief began then to increase ; among my Sons I had one Daughter bright , Which joy'd and pleased best my aged Sighed . My Lavinia was betrothed then To Caesar's Son , a young and noble Man , Who in a Hunting , by the Emperor's Wife And her two Sons , bereft was of Life . He being slave , was cast in cruel wise , Into a darksome Den , from Light of Skies ; The cruel Moor did come that way , as then , With my three Sons , who fell into the Den . The Moor then fetch'd the Emperor with speed , For to accuse them of that Murderous deed : And when my Sons within the Den were found , In wrongful Prison were they cast and bound . But now behold what wounded most my Mind , The Empress's two Sons , of Tigers kind , My Daughter ravished without remorse , And took away her Honour quite per Force . When they had tasted of so sweet a Flower , Fearing this Sweet should turned be to sour , They cut her Tongue , whereby she could not tell How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her Hands they basely cut off quite , Whereby their Wickedness she could not write ; Nor with her Needle on her Sampler sow , The bloody Workers of her dismal woe . My Brother Marcus found her in the Wood , Staining the grassy Ground with purple Blood ; That trickled from her Stumps and handless Arms , No Tongue at all she had to tell her Harms . But when I saw her in that woeful Case , With Tears of Blood I wet my aged Face ; For my Lavinia I lamented more Than for my Two and Twenty Sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak , With Grief my aged Heart began to break ; We spread a Heap of Sand upon the Ground , Whereby the bloody Tyrants out we found . For with a Staff , without the help of Hand , She wrote these Words upon a Plate of Sand : The lustful Sons of the proud Empress , Are doers of this hateful Wickedness . I tore the Milkwhite Hairs from off my Head , I cursed the Hour wherein I first was bred ; I wish'd the Hand that fought for Country's Fame , In Cradle rock'd , had first been stricken lame . The Moor delighting still in villainy , Did say , to set my Sons from Prisons free , I should unto the King my right Hand give , And then my three imprisoned Sons should live . The Moor I caus'd to strike it off with speed , Whereat I grieved not to see it bleed ; But for my Sons would willingly impart , And for their Ransom send my bleeding Heart . But as my Life did linger thus in vain , They send to me my bootless Hand again ; And there withal the Heads of my three Sons , Which fill'd my dying Heart with fresher Groans . Then passed relief , I up and down did go , And with my Tears wrote in the Dust my woe ; I shot my Arrows towards Heaven high , And for revenge to Hell did often cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , Like Furies she and both her Sons were glad ; So nam'd Revenge , and Rape , and Murder , they To undermine and hear what I would say . I fed their foolish Veins a little space , Until my Friends did find a secret Place , Where both her Sons unto a Post was bound , Where just revenge in cruel Sort was found . I cut their Throats , my Daughter held the Pan Betwixt her Stumps , wherein the Blood it ran : And then I ground their Bones to powder small , And made a Past for Pies straight there withal . Then with their Flesh I made two mighty Pies , And at a Banquet serv'd in stately wise : Before the Empress set this loathsome Meat , So of her Sons own Flesh she well did eat . My self bereav'd my Daughter then of Life , The Empress then I slew with bloody Knife : And stab'd the Emperor immediately , And then myself , even so did Titus die . Then this Revenge against the Moor was found , Alive they set him half into the Ground , Whereas he stood until such time he starv'd , And so God send all Murderers may be serv'd . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289783 The Lamentable and Tragical HISTORY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS ; WITH The Fallen of his Sons in the Wars of the Goths : With the Manner of the Ravishment of his Daughter Lavinia , by the Empress's two Sons , through the Means of a bloody Moor , taken by the Sword of Titus , in the War : With his Revenge upon their cruel and inhu - mane Act. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc YOU noble Minds , and famous Martial Wights , That in Defence of Native Countries fights ; Give ear to me that ten Years fought for Rome , Yet reap'd Disgrace at my returning Home . In Room I liv'd in Fame full threescore Years , My Name beloved was of all my Peers ; Full Five and Twenty valiant Sons I had , Whose forward Virtues made their Father glad . For when Rome's Foes their warlike Forces felt , Against them still my Sons and I were sent ; Against the Goths full ten Years weary War We spent , receiving many a bloody Scar. Just Two and Twenty of my Sons were slave , Before I did return to Room again ; Of Five and Twenty Sons I brought but Three Alive , the stately Tower of Room to see . When Wars were done , I Conquest home did bring , And did present my Prisoners to the King : The Queen of Goths , her Sons , and eke a Moor , Who did such Murders , like were none before . The Emperor did make the Queen his Wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife ; The Moor with her two Sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room might be allow'd . The Moor so pleased this new Empress's Eye , That she consented to him secretly ; For to abuse her Husband's Marriage Bed , And so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she , whose Thoughts to murder was inclin'd , Consented with the Moor , with bloody Mind , Against myself , my Kin , and all my Friends , In cruel Sort to bring them to their Ends. So when in Age I thought to live in Peace , Both Care and Grief began then to increase ; among my Sons I had one Daughter bright , Which joy'd and pleased best my aged Sighed . My Lavinia was betrothed then To Caesar's Son , a young and noble Man , Who in a Hunting , by the Emperor's Wife And her two Sons , bereft was of Life . He being slave , was cast in cruel wise , Into a darksome Den , from Light of Skies ; The cruel Moor did come that way , as then , With my three Sons , who fell into the Den . The Moor then fetch'd the Emperor with speed , For to accuse them of that Murderous deed : And when my Sons within the Den were found , In wrongful Prison were they cast and bound . But now behold what wounded most my Mind , The Empress's two Sons , of Tigers kind , My Daughter ravished without remorse , And took away her Honour quite per Force . When they had tasted of so sweet a Flower , Fearing this Sweet should turned be to sour , They cut her Tongue , whereby she could not tell How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her Hands they basely cut off quite , Whereby their Wickedness she could not write ; Nor with her Needle on her Sampler sow , The bloody Workers of her dismal woe . My Brother Marcus found her in the Wood , Staining the grassy Ground with purple Blood ; That trickled from her Stumps and handless Arms , No Tongue at all she had to tell her Harms . But when I saw her in that woeful Case , With Tears of Blood I wet my aged Face ; For my Lavinia I lamented more Than for my Two and Twenty Sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak , With Grief my aged Heart began to break ; We spread a Heap of Sand upon the Ground , Whereby the bloody Tyrants out we found . For with a Staff , without the help of Hand , She wrote these Words upon a Plate of Sand : The lustful Sons of the proud Empress , Are doers of this hateful Wickedness . I tore the Milkwhite Hairs from off my Head , I cursed the Hour wherein I first was bred ; I wish'd the Hand that fought for Country's Fame , In Cradle rock'd , had first been stricken lame . The Moor delighting still in villainy , Did say , to set my Sons from Prisons free , I should unto the King my right Hand give , And then my three imprisoned Sons should live . The Moor I caus'd to strike it off with speed , Whereat I grieved not to see it bleed ; But for my Sons would willingly impart , And for their Ransom send my bleeding Heart . But as my Life did linger thus in vain , They send to me my bootless Hand again ; And there withal the Heads of my three Sons , Which fill'd my dying Heart with fresher Groans . Then passed relief , I up and down did go , And with my Tears wrote in the Dust my woe ; I shot my Arrows towards Heaven high , And for revenge to Hell did often cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , Like Furies she and both her Sons were glad ; So nam'd Revenge , and Rape , and Murder , they To undermine and hear what I would say . I fed their foolish Veins a little space , Until my Friends did find a secret Place , Where both her Sons unto a Post was bound , Where just revenge in cruel Sort was found . I cut their Throats , my Daughter held the Pan Betwixt her Stumps , wherein the Blood it ran : And then I ground their Bones to powder small , And made a Past for Pies straight there withal . Then with their Flesh I made two mighty Pies , And at a Banquet serv'd in stately wise : Before the Empress set this loathsome Meat , So of her Sons own Flesh she well did eat . My self bereav'd my Daughter then of Life , The Empress then I slew with bloody Knife : And stab'd the Emperor immediately , And then myself , even so did Titus die . Then this Revenge against the Moor was found , Alive they set him half into the Ground , Whereas he stood until such time he starv'd , And so God send all Murderers may be serv'd . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 