H : 289784 A Song , on the Confession and Dying Words of William Stevenson , Merchant , late of North-Allerton , in the County of York , aged 27 Years , who was executed at Durham on Saturday the 26th of August , 1727 , for the barbarous Murder of Mary Fawden , near Hartlepool in the Bishopric of Durham ; taken from his own Mouth the Night before his Execution , by a Person that went to visit him while in Goal . To the Tune of , Since Caelia's my Foe . GOOD Lord ! I'm undone , thy Face I would shun , I've anger'd my God , and displeased his Son : I dare not come nigh thy great Majesty , Oh! where shall I hide my poor Soul when I die . Thy Vengeance I dread on my guilty Head , All Hope's of thy Mercy from me now are fled ; My poor sinful Soul is filthy and foul , And Terror and Horror in my Conscience roll . The Shame of my Raze , and Mankind's disgrace , My Actions all over were wicked and base ; No Devil in Hell that from Glory fell , Can now with my Blood-guilty Soul parallel . Her Affections I drew , how could I imbrue My Hands in her Blood ! Oh! my God , I do rue The cursed hellish Deed , I made her to bleed , That never did wrong me in thought , word , or deed . I us'd my whole art , 'till I stole her Heart , And swore to befriend her , and still take her Part , Thus being beguil'd , she soon prov'd with Child , Which made her weep sorely , but I only smil'd . With sighs and with groans with tears and with moans She utter'd such Plaints a would soften flint Stone ; Oh! where shall I hide my Shame oft she cry'd , Dear Sir , take some pity , and for me provide . H : 289784 A Song , on the Confession and Dying Words of William Stevenson , Merchant , late of North-Allerton , in the County of York , aged 27 Years , who was executed at Durham on Saturday the 26th of August , 1727 , for the barbarous Murder of Mary Fawden , near Hartlepool in the Bishopric of Durham ; taken from his own Mouth the Night before his Execution , by a Person that went to visit him while in Goal . To the Tune of , Since Caelia's my Foe . GOOD Lord ! I'm undone , thy Face I would shun , I've anger'd my God , and displeased his Son : I dare not come nigh thy great Majesty , Oh! where shall I hide my poor Soul when I die . Thy Vengeance I dread on my guilty Head , All Hope's of thy Mercy from me now are fled ; My poor sinful Soul is filthy and foul , And Terror and Horror in my Conscience roll . The Shame of my Raze , and Mankind's disgrace , My Actions all over were wicked and base ; No Devil in Hell that from Glory fell , Can now with my Blood-guilty Soul parallel . Her Affections I drew , how could I imbrue My Hands in her Blood ! Oh! my God , I do rue The cursed hellish Deed , I made her to bleed , That never did wrong me in thought , word , or deed . I us'd my whole art , 'till I stole her Heart , And swore to befriend her , and still take her Part , Thus being beguil'd , she soon prov'd with Child , Which made her weep sorely , but I only smil'd . With sighs and with groans with tears and with moans She utter'd such Plaints a would soften flint Stone ; Oh! where shall I hide my Shame oft she cry'd , Dear Sir , take some pity , and for me provide . 