H : 301195 CROMWELLS PANEGYRICK . SHall Presbyterian bells' ring Cromwell's praise , While we stand still and do no Trophies raise Unto his lasting name ? Then may we be Hung like the bells' in our dependency . Well may his Nose , that is dominical , Take pepper in't , to see no Pen at all Stir to applaud his merits , who hath lent Such valour , to erect a monument Of lasting praise ; whose name shall never die , While England has a Church , or Monarchy . He whom the laurell'd Army home did bring Riding Triumphant o're his conquer'd King , He is the Generals Cypher now ; and when Hee's joyn'd to him , he makes that one a Ten. The Kingdoms Saint ; England no more shall stir To cry St. George , but now St. Oliver . He's the Realms Ensign ; and who goes to wring His Nose , is forc'd to cry , God save the King . He that can rout and Army with his name , And take a City , ere he views the same : His Soldiers may want bred , but n'ere shall fear ( While he's their General , ) the want of Beer ; No Wonder they wore Baize , his Brewing-fat ( Helicon-like ) make Poets Laurea When Brains in those Castalian liquours swim , We sing no Heathenish Pean , but a Hymn ; And that by th' Spirit too , for who can choose But sing Hosanna to this King of Jewes ? Tremble you Scotish zealots , you that han't Freed any Conscience from your Covenan That for those bald Appellatives of Cause , Religion , and the Fundamental Laws , Have pul'd the old Episcopacy down , And as the Miter , so you'le serve the Crown . You that have made the Cap to th' Bonnet veil , And made the Head a servant to the Tail . And you cursed spawn of Publicans , that fit In every County , as a plague to it ; That with your yeomen Sequestrating Knaves , Have made whole Counties beggarly , and slaves . You Synod , that have sat so long to know Whither we must believe in God , or no ; You that have torn the Church , and sat t' impair The Ten Commandments , the Creed , the Prayer ; And made your honours pull down heavens glory , While you set up that Calf , your Directory : We shall no wicked Jewes-ear'd Elders want , This Army's built of Churches Militan These are new Tribes of Levi ; for they be Clergy , yet of no University . Pull down your Crests ; for every bird shall gather , From your usurping back , a stolen feather . Your Great Lay Levite Prynne , whose Margin tires The patient Reader , while he blots whole quires , Nay reams with Treason ; and with Nonsense too , To justify what e're you say or do : Whose circumcised ears are hardly grown Ripe for another Persecution : He must to Scotland for another pair ; For he will loose these , if he tarry here . Burges that Reverend Presbydeane of Pauls , Must ( with his Poundage ) leave his Cure of Souls , And into Scotland trot , that he may pick Out of that Kirk , a nick-nam'd Bishopric . And Calamy must now resign his place , Because Scalpellum has cut through the Case ; The Protean Hollis , that will never burn , Must here or'at Tiburne take another turn . And Will the Conqueror in a Scottish dance Must led his running Army into France . Or he and Stapleton among those Crews In Holland built a Synagogue of Jewes , And spread Rebellion ; Great Alexander Fears not a Pillory , like this Commander . And Bedlam John , that at his Clerks so raves , Using them not like servants , but like slaves . He that so freely rail'd against his Prince , Cal'd him dissembling subtle Knave , and since Has still'd the whole Army Bankrupts ; said , that none Of their Estates were equal to his own : He that was by a strong ambition led To set himself upon the Cities head : But when he has restor'd his both-side fees , Hee'll be as poor , or they as rich as hee's . And that still-gaping Tophet Goldsmiths Hall , With all his Furies , shall to ruin fallen . Wee'l be no more gull'd by that Popish story , But shall reach heav'n without that Purgatory : What honour does he merit , what renown By whom all these oppressions are pul'd down . And such a Government is like to be In Church and State , as eye did never see : Magicians hold , hee'l set up Common Prayer ; Looking in's face , they find the Rubric there . His Name shall never die , by fire nor flood , But in Church-windows stand , where pictures stood : And if his soul loathing that house of clay , Shall [ l ] to another Kingdom march away , Under some Barns floor his bones shall lie , Who Churches did , and Monuments defy : Where the rude Thrasher , with much knocking on , Shall wake him at the Resurrection . And on his Grave since there must be no Stone , Shall stand this Epitaph ; That he has none . Printed in the Year 1647. H : 301195 CROMWELLS PANEGYRICK . SHall Presbyterian bells' ring Cromwell's praise , While we stand still and do no Trophies raise Unto his lasting name ? Then may we be Hung like the bells' in our dependency . Well may his Nose , that is dominical , Take pepper in't , to see no Pen at all Stir to applaud his merits , who hath lent Such valour , to erect a monument Of lasting praise ; whose name shall never die , While England has a Church , or Monarchy . He whom the laurell'd Army home did bring Riding Triumphant o're his conquer'd King , He is the Generals Cypher now ; and when Hee's joyn'd to him , he makes that one a Ten. The Kingdoms Saint ; England no more shall stir To cry St. George , but now St. Oliver . He's the Realms Ensign ; and who goes to wring His Nose , is forc'd to cry , God save the King . He that can rout and Army with his name , And take a City , ere he views the same : His Soldiers may want bred , but n'ere shall fear ( While he's their General , ) the want of Beer ; No Wonder they wore Baize , his Brewing-fat ( Helicon-like ) make Poets Laurea When Brains in those Castalian liquours swim , We sing no Heathenish Pean , but a Hymn ; And that by th' Spirit too , for who can choose But sing Hosanna to this King of Jewes ? Tremble you Scotish zealots , you that han't Freed any Conscience from your Covenan That for those bald Appellatives of Cause , Religion , and the Fundamental Laws , Have pul'd the old Episcopacy down , And as the Miter , so you'le serve the Crown . You that have made the Cap to th' Bonnet veil , And made the Head a servant to the Tail . And you cursed spawn of Publicans , that fit In every County , as a plague to it ; That with your yeomen Sequestrating Knaves , Have made whole Counties beggarly , and slaves . You Synod , that have sat so long to know Whither we must believe in God , or no ; You that have torn the Church , and sat t' impair The Ten Commandments , the Creed , the Prayer ; And made your honours pull down heavens glory , While you set up that Calf , your Directory : We shall no wicked Jewes-ear'd Elders want , This Army's built of Churches Militan These are new Tribes of Levi ; for they be Clergy , yet of no University . Pull down your Crests ; for every bird shall gather , From your usurping back , a stolen feather . Your Great Lay Levite Prynne , whose Margin tires The patient Reader , while he blots whole quires , Nay reams with Treason ; and with Nonsense too , To justify what e're you say or do : Whose circumcised ears are hardly grown Ripe for another Persecution : He must to Scotland for another pair ; For he will loose these , if he tarry here . Burges that Reverend Presbydeane of Pauls , Must ( with his Poundage ) leave his Cure of Souls , And into Scotland trot , that he may pick Out of that Kirk , a nick-nam'd Bishopric . And Calamy must now resign his place , Because Scalpellum has cut through the Case ; The Protean Hollis , that will never burn , Must here or'at Tiburne take another turn . And Will the Conqueror in a Scottish dance Must led his running Army into France . Or he and Stapleton among those Crews In Holland built a Synagogue of Jewes , And spread Rebellion ; Great Alexander Fears not a Pillory , like this Commander . And Bedlam John , that at his Clerks so raves , Using them not like servants , but like slaves . He that so freely rail'd against his Prince , Cal'd him dissembling subtle Knave , and since Has still'd the whole Army Bankrupts ; said , that none Of their Estates were equal to his own : He that was by a strong ambition led To set himself upon the Cities head : But when he has restor'd his both-side fees , Hee'll be as poor , or they as rich as hee's . And that still-gaping Tophet Goldsmiths Hall , With all his Furies , shall to ruin fallen . Wee'l be no more gull'd by that Popish story , But shall reach heav'n without that Purgatory : What honour does he merit , what renown By whom all these oppressions are pul'd down . And such a Government is like to be In Church and State , as eye did never see : Magicians hold , hee'l set up Common Prayer ; Looking in's face , they find the Rubric there . His Name shall never die , by fire nor flood , But in Church-windows stand , where pictures stood : And if his soul loathing that house of clay , Shall [ l ] to another Kingdom march away , Under some Barns floor his bones shall lie , Who Churches did , and Monuments defy : Where the rude Thrasher , with much knocking on , Shall wake him at the Resurrection . And on his Grave since there must be no Stone , Shall stand this Epitaph ; That he has none . Printed in the Year 1647. 