H : 289788 The Famous Flower of Servingmen : OR , The LADY turned to be a SERVING-MAN . Her Love being slave , her Father dead , Her Bower robb'd , her Servants fled ; She dress'd herself in Man's Attire , She trimm'd her Locks , she cut her Hair , And thereupon she changed her Name , From fair Alice to sweet William , To the Tune of , Flora's Farewell ; or Summer Time . YOU beauteous Ladies great and small , I write to you , one and all Whereby that you may understand What I have suffer'd in this Land. I was by birth a Lady fair , My Father's chief and only Heir : But when my good old Father dy'd , Then I was made a young Knight's Bride . But when my Love built me a Bower , Bedeck'd with many a fragrant Flower ; A braver Bower you never did see , Than my true Love did built for me . But there came Thieves late in the Night , That robb'd my Bower and slew my Knight And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain . My Servants all from me did fly , In the midst of my sad Extremity : And left me by myself alone , With Heart more cold than any Stone . Yet though my Heart was full of Care Heav'n suffered me not to despair ; Wherefore in Haste I chang'd my Name , From fair Alice to sweet William . And therewithal I cut my Hair , And dressed myself in Man's Attire ; With Doublet , Hose and Bever-hat , And a Gold Band about my Neck . A Silver Rapier by my side , So like a Gallant I did ride ; The Thing that I delighted on , It was to be a Servingman . Thus in my sumptuous Man's Array , I bravely road along the Way ; And at the last it chanced so , I unto the King's Court did go Then to the King I bowed full low , My Love and Duty for to show , And so much Favour I did crave , That I a Servant's-place might have . Stand up , brave Youth the King reply'd , Thy Service shall not be deny'd ; But tell me first what thou can'st do , Thou shall be fitted thereunto . Will thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all ? Wilt thou be taster of my Wine , To wait upon me when I dine ; Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my Bed so soft and fine ? Or will thou be one of my Guards ? And I will give the great Reward . Sweet William with a smiling Face , Said to the King , if it please your Grace To show such Favour unto me , I your Chamberlain would be . The King did then the Nobles call , To ask the Council of them all : Who gave Consent , sweet William he , The King's own Chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange Things came to pass As the King one Day a Hunting was , With all his Lords and Noble Train , Sweet William did at Home remain . Sweet William had no Company then , At home with him but and old Man ; And when she saw the House was clear , He took a Lute which he had there . Upon the Lute sweet William play'd , And to the same he sung and said , With a pleasant and most noble Voice , Which made the old Man to rejoice . 'My father was as brave a Lord , 'As ever Europe did afford ; 'My Mother was a Lady bright , 'My Husband was a gallant knight . 'And I myself a Lady gay , 'Bedeck'd with glorious rich Array ; 'The bravest Lady in the Land 'Had no more pleasures at Command . 'I had my Music every Day , 'Harmonious Lessons for to play , 'I had my Virgins fair and free , 'Continually to wait on me . 'But now , alas ! my Husband's dead 'And all my Friends are from me fled ; 'My former Joys are past and gone , 'For now I am a Servingman . ' At last the King from Hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for the good old Man , And thus to speak he thus began . What News what News old man quoth he , What News has thou to tell to me , Brave News the old man then did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tellest to me , I'll make thee Lord of high Degree : But if thy words do prove a Lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up instantly . But when the King the Truth had found , His Joys did more and more abound : According as the old man did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . Therefore the King without delay , Put on his glorious rich array Upon her Head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of further Strife , He took sweet William for his Wife ; The like before was never seen , A serving man to be a Queen . H : 289788 The Famous Flower of Servingmen : OR , The LADY turned to be a SERVING-MAN . Her Love being slave , her Father dead , Her Bower robb'd , her Servants fled ; She dress'd herself in Man's Attire , She trimm'd her Locks , she cut her Hair , And thereupon she changed her Name , From fair Alice to sweet William , To the Tune of , Flora's Farewell ; or Summer Time . YOU beauteous Ladies great and small , I write to you , one and all Whereby that you may understand What I have suffer'd in this Land. I was by birth a Lady fair , My Father's chief and only Heir : But when my good old Father dy'd , Then I was made a young Knight's Bride . But when my Love built me a Bower , Bedeck'd with many a fragrant Flower ; A braver Bower you never did see , Than my true Love did built for me . But there came Thieves late in the Night , That robb'd my Bower and slew my Knight And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain . My Servants all from me did fly , In the midst of my sad Extremity : And left me by myself alone , With Heart more cold than any Stone . Yet though my Heart was full of Care Heav'n suffered me not to despair ; Wherefore in Haste I chang'd my Name , From fair Alice to sweet William . And therewithal I cut my Hair , And dressed myself in Man's Attire ; With Doublet , Hose and Bever-hat , And a Gold Band about my Neck . A Silver Rapier by my side , So like a Gallant I did ride ; The Thing that I delighted on , It was to be a Servingman . Thus in my sumptuous Man's Array , I bravely road along the Way ; And at the last it chanced so , I unto the King's Court did go Then to the King I bowed full low , My Love and Duty for to show , And so much Favour I did crave , That I a Servant's-place might have . Stand up , brave Youth the King reply'd , Thy Service shall not be deny'd ; But tell me first what thou can'st do , Thou shall be fitted thereunto . Will thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all ? Wilt thou be taster of my Wine , To wait upon me when I dine ; Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my Bed so soft and fine ? Or will thou be one of my Guards ? And I will give the great Reward . Sweet William with a smiling Face , Said to the King , if it please your Grace To show such Favour unto me , I your Chamberlain would be . The King did then the Nobles call , To ask the Council of them all : Who gave Consent , sweet William he , The King's own Chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange Things came to pass As the King one Day a Hunting was , With all his Lords and Noble Train , Sweet William did at Home remain . Sweet William had no Company then , At home with him but and old Man ; And when she saw the House was clear , He took a Lute which he had there . Upon the Lute sweet William play'd , And to the same he sung and said , With a pleasant and most noble Voice , Which made the old Man to rejoice . 'My father was as brave a Lord , 'As ever Europe did afford ; 'My Mother was a Lady bright , 'My Husband was a gallant knight . 'And I myself a Lady gay , 'Bedeck'd with glorious rich Array ; 'The bravest Lady in the Land 'Had no more pleasures at Command . 'I had my Music every Day , 'Harmonious Lessons for to play , 'I had my Virgins fair and free , 'Continually to wait on me . 'But now , alas ! my Husband's dead 'And all my Friends are from me fled ; 'My former Joys are past and gone , 'For now I am a Servingman . ' At last the King from Hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for the good old Man , And thus to speak he thus began . What News what News old man quoth he , What News has thou to tell to me , Brave News the old man then did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tellest to me , I'll make thee Lord of high Degree : But if thy words do prove a Lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up instantly . But when the King the Truth had found , His Joys did more and more abound : According as the old man did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . Therefore the King without delay , Put on his glorious rich array Upon her Head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of further Strife , He took sweet William for his Wife ; The like before was never seen , A serving man to be a Queen . 