H : 314492 SUSPIRIA , or SIGHS On the DEATH of the Late Most Illustrious MONARCH CHARLES the II KING OF Great Britain , France and Ireland , etc who Changed his Earthly for a Heavenly Crown , on Fryday the 6th . of February 1684 5. in the 37th year of his Reign , and 55th of his Age . CAn Great , Illustrious Britains Monarch , Die , Without a Sacrifice of Tears ! what Eye , Forbears to Drill whole Hecatombs ! when we Have lost the Atlas of our Monarchy ! Ah! sharpest Grief put out thy Keenest Stings , Bemoan the best of Men , the best of Kings . Can and Inrag'd , Distracted Muse forbear , To Rail at Death , that must so rudely tear Our [ Pater Patriae ] Countries Father , hence ! Unruly Grief , Rail not at Providence . How dar'st thou Murmur at thy Kings Remove ? The King of Kings , would have him mount above And Earthly Crown , to a more Glorious one . -- Bright Rays of Majesty , about him Shone , When here ! -- he now in greater Glory Dwells ; A Glory that allows no Parallels ! Then spiteful Grief be still , and Envy not Thy Prince , the great Advancement he has god . Ah! Words where are you ! Ah! what must I borrow Language from Tears to Represent my Sorrow ! Drop then you friendly Streams , till like a Flood , [ More Elegant than Words ] be Understood , Our Universal Grief ; to Mourn thus , you , Better than Groans , or Elegies , can do . Dull stupid Pen , away ! give place to Sighs , The Fittest Mourners for such Obsequies . Presume not then to draw his Character , His Royal Name is Blazon'd ev'ry where ; The Sun in its Orbicular surround Scarce sees a Place , but where his Fame does found . Ah! but I will ! And tell the World that he Was Great , and Good , and full of Clemency . A Prince of so much Majesty , that none Could with more splendid virtues grace a Throne That lent ( not borrow'd ) Lustre to his Crown . Away , away ; thou Blunt Poetic Art ; On meaner Subject's , Act thy little Part. No Rhapsodies of Verse , no Prose can Rise To Accents fit for such great Obsequies : Oh! Great but Dismal Subject ! could my Quill Instead of Ink ; with other Drops Distil , I'de Represent to ev'ry Readers view , Lines ( not of Sable , but ) of Crimson hiew . There's nothing of Idolatry in thee , Right Application of Apostrophe ! Then Great , ( now then before more Glorious Prince ) Since our Supremest King , has call'd thee hence , May Heav'ns o're-ruling , Bright , Illustrious Rays , Give thy surviving Subject's Halcyon Days . May this August Celebrious Kingdom see , No Interregnum of that Clemency , Which sav'd three Kingdoms from a Fatal Yoke , The Dire Results of and Intended Stroke ! Dismiss thy fear , His Royal Brother ; who Succeeds him in his Throne , and Virtues too , Has so Majestic , so subline a Soul , That what he promis'd , none shall dare Control . Away Suspicion ! here's the Royal Word ; What greater surety can Mankind afford ? That Publick-Sacred-Obligation binds The Royal Breast to leave things as he finds , The Constitution of our Laws to be , Just to the Subject's ; just to Monarchy . LONDON , Printed for L.C. near Fleet-bridge . 1684 5. H : 314492 SUSPIRIA , or SIGHS On the DEATH of the Late Most Illustrious MONARCH CHARLES the II KING OF Great Britain , France and Ireland , etc who Changed his Earthly for a Heavenly Crown , on Fryday the 6th . of February 1684 5. in the 37th year of his Reign , and 55th of his Age . CAn Great , Illustrious Britains Monarch , Die , Without a Sacrifice of Tears ! what Eye , Forbears to Drill whole Hecatombs ! when we Have lost the Atlas of our Monarchy ! Ah! sharpest Grief put out thy Keenest Stings , Bemoan the best of Men , the best of Kings . Can and Inrag'd , Distracted Muse forbear , To Rail at Death , that must so rudely tear Our [ Pater Patriae ] Countries Father , hence ! Unruly Grief , Rail not at Providence . How dar'st thou Murmur at thy Kings Remove ? The King of Kings , would have him mount above And Earthly Crown , to a more Glorious one . -- Bright Rays of Majesty , about him Shone , When here ! -- he now in greater Glory Dwells ; A Glory that allows no Parallels ! Then spiteful Grief be still , and Envy not Thy Prince , the great Advancement he has god . Ah! Words where are you ! Ah! what must I borrow Language from Tears to Represent my Sorrow ! Drop then you friendly Streams , till like a Flood , [ More Elegant than Words ] be Understood , Our Universal Grief ; to Mourn thus , you , Better than Groans , or Elegies , can do . Dull stupid Pen , away ! give place to Sighs , The Fittest Mourners for such Obsequies . Presume not then to draw his Character , His Royal Name is Blazon'd ev'ry where ; The Sun in its Orbicular surround Scarce sees a Place , but where his Fame does found . Ah! but I will ! And tell the World that he Was Great , and Good , and full of Clemency . A Prince of so much Majesty , that none Could with more splendid virtues grace a Throne That lent ( not borrow'd ) Lustre to his Crown . Away , away ; thou Blunt Poetic Art ; On meaner Subject's , Act thy little Part. No Rhapsodies of Verse , no Prose can Rise To Accents fit for such great Obsequies : Oh! Great but Dismal Subject ! could my Quill Instead of Ink ; with other Drops Distil , I'de Represent to ev'ry Readers view , Lines ( not of Sable , but ) of Crimson hiew . There's nothing of Idolatry in thee , Right Application of Apostrophe ! Then Great , ( now then before more Glorious Prince ) Since our Supremest King , has call'd thee hence , May Heav'ns o're-ruling , Bright , Illustrious Rays , Give thy surviving Subject's Halcyon Days . May this August Celebrious Kingdom see , No Interregnum of that Clemency , Which sav'd three Kingdoms from a Fatal Yoke , The Dire Results of and Intended Stroke ! Dismiss thy fear , His Royal Brother ; who Succeeds him in his Throne , and Virtues too , Has so Majestic , so subline a Soul , That what he promis'd , none shall dare Control . Away Suspicion ! here's the Royal Word ; What greater surety can Mankind afford ? That Publick-Sacred-Obligation binds The Royal Breast to leave things as he finds , The Constitution of our Laws to be , Just to the Subject's ; just to Monarchy . LONDON , Printed for L.C. near Fleet-bridge . 1684 5. 