H : 313744 THE CONFINEMENT Of the SEVEN BISHOPS . WHere is there Faith , or Justice to be found ? Sure , the World Trembles , Nature's in a found , To see her Pious Sons , Design'd to Fallen , A Victum , for Religion , Truth and All. The Charms of Piety , are no Defence , Against the New found Power , that can Dispense With Laws , to Murder Innocence : Surely , unless some Pitying God look down , And stop the Threatening Torrent , it will drown Divinity it Self . --------- The Bishops Prisoners are , we tamely see ; The Reverend Prelates forc'd to Bow the Knee To Anti-Chris No , Mighty Monarch know , Tho' we must pay to Caesar what we Owe ; There is a Power Supreme , by which You Live , Whose Arm is longer , and Prerogative Larger by far , than Yours , whose very Word Can blast Your Hope's , and turn Your two edg'd Sword ; Can make this Titular Vicegerent know , Virtue , like Palm's Depressed , do's higher grow . Tho' Roab'd in all the Grandure of the State , Courtiers , like Radiant Stars about You wait , Midst of Your Glorious Joys , when You put on That Awful Presence , which becomes a Throne : Belshazzer like , Three Words upon a Wall , 'Twill Dash Your Joys , and make Your Glory Fallen : His Holiness , That Patriot of Strife , Tho' he can grant You Pardon , cannot Life . Arise then , Mighty Sir , in Godlike Mean ! As of thy Valour , Let thy Truth be Seen , Free from Mistrust , Let all Your Words be clear By Actium ; Let Your Promises appear , Protect the Church , which brought You to the Crown ; You know 'tis Great , and Honourable to Own , A Kindness done ; But to Reward with Death , The Happy Instruments , That gave You Breath , Is mean ; and might a Catholic Conscience sting , To cut the Hand of that , Anoints You King . H : 313744 THE CONFINEMENT Of the SEVEN BISHOPS . WHere is there Faith , or Justice to be found ? Sure , the World Trembles , Nature's in a found , To see her Pious Sons , Design'd to Fallen , A Victum , for Religion , Truth and All. The Charms of Piety , are no Defence , Against the New found Power , that can Dispense With Laws , to Murder Innocence : Surely , unless some Pitying God look down , And stop the Threatening Torrent , it will drown Divinity it Self . --------- The Bishops Prisoners are , we tamely see ; The Reverend Prelates forc'd to Bow the Knee To Anti-Chris No , Mighty Monarch know , Tho' we must pay to Caesar what we Owe ; There is a Power Supreme , by which You Live , Whose Arm is longer , and Prerogative Larger by far , than Yours , whose very Word Can blast Your Hope's , and turn Your two edg'd Sword ; Can make this Titular Vicegerent know , Virtue , like Palm's Depressed , do's higher grow . Tho' Roab'd in all the Grandure of the State , Courtiers , like Radiant Stars about You wait , Midst of Your Glorious Joys , when You put on That Awful Presence , which becomes a Throne : Belshazzer like , Three Words upon a Wall , 'Twill Dash Your Joys , and make Your Glory Fallen : His Holiness , That Patriot of Strife , Tho' he can grant You Pardon , cannot Life . Arise then , Mighty Sir , in Godlike Mean ! As of thy Valour , Let thy Truth be Seen , Free from Mistrust , Let all Your Words be clear By Actium ; Let Your Promises appear , Protect the Church , which brought You to the Crown ; You know 'tis Great , and Honourable to Own , A Kindness done ; But to Reward with Death , The Happy Instruments , That gave You Breath , Is mean ; and might a Catholic Conscience sting , To cut the Hand of that , Anoints You King . 