H : 378951 [ I ] A New Song of and Orange , To that excellent Old Tune of a Pudding , etc GOOD People come buy The Fruit that I Cry , That now is in Season , tho' Winter is nigh , 'Twill do you all good , And sweeten your Blood , I'm sure it will please you when once understood 'Tis and Orange . Its Cordial Juice Do's much Vigor produce , I may well recommend it to every man's use ; Tho' some it quite chills , And with fear almost kills , Yet certain each honest Man benefft feels by and Orange . To make Claret go down Sometime there is found A Jolly good Health to pass pleasantly round : But yet I'll protest , Without any Jest , No flavour is better than that of the taste of and Orange . Perhaps you may think At White H ---- they stink , Because that our Neighbours come over the Sea , Yet sure 'tis presum'd That they may be perfum'd By the scent of a Clove when once it is stuck in and Orange . If they'd cure the ails Of the Pr --- of Wa ---- When the Milk of Milch Tyler do's not well agree , Tho' he's subject to cast They may better the taste , Yet let 'em take heed lest it Curdle at last with and Orange . Old Stories rehearse In Prose and in Verse , How a Welsh Child was found by loving of Cheese , So this will be known If it be the Q ---- s own ; For the taste it utterly then will disown of and Orange . Tho' the Mobile bawl , Like the Devil and all , For Religion , Property , Justice and Laws ; Yet in very good sooth I'll tell you the truth , There nothing is better to stop a men mouth than and Orange . We are certainly told That by Adam of old Himself and his Bearns for and Apple was sold And who knows but his Son By Serpents undone , And his Juggling Eve may chance loose her own for and Orange . London , Printed in the Year , 1688. H : 378951 [ I ] A New Song of and Orange , To that excellent Old Tune of a Pudding , etc GOOD People come buy The Fruit that I Cry , That now is in Season , tho' Winter is nigh , 'Twill do you all good , And sweeten your Blood , I'm sure it will please you when once understood 'Tis and Orange . Its Cordial Juice Do's much Vigor produce , I may well recommend it to every man's use ; Tho' some it quite chills , And with fear almost kills , Yet certain each honest Man benefft feels by and Orange . To make Claret go down Sometime there is found A Jolly good Health to pass pleasantly round : But yet I'll protest , Without any Jest , No flavour is better than that of the taste of and Orange . Perhaps you may think At White H ---- they stink , Because that our Neighbours come over the Sea , Yet sure 'tis presum'd That they may be perfum'd By the scent of a Clove when once it is stuck in and Orange . If they'd cure the ails Of the Pr --- of Wa ---- When the Milk of Milch Tyler do's not well agree , Tho' he's subject to cast They may better the taste , Yet let 'em take heed lest it Curdle at last with and Orange . Old Stories rehearse In Prose and in Verse , How a Welsh Child was found by loving of Cheese , So this will be known If it be the Q ---- s own ; For the taste it utterly then will disown of and Orange . Tho' the Mobile bawl , Like the Devil and all , For Religion , Property , Justice and Laws ; Yet in very good sooth I'll tell you the truth , There nothing is better to stop a men mouth than and Orange . We are certainly told That by Adam of old Himself and his Bearns for and Apple was sold And who knows but his Son By Serpents undone , And his Juggling Eve may chance loose her own for and Orange . London , Printed in the Year , 1688. 