H : 313742 AESOP'S Last Will and Testament . POOR AEsop being taken ill , But yet of perfect mind , thus makes his Will : First , I bequeathe my Soul , when I forsake it , To him that has the chiefest Right to take it . My Body next , ( let me consider well ) To him , that will convey it out of smell ; My Worldly Goods , although they are but few , My scribing Friends , those I bequeathe to you . And were I sure that he'd accept of it , My Friend of Quality should have my With Next to the Squire , that with his Horse and Hounds , Leap't o'er his Tenants Hedge , and broke his Mounds : To him , and to his Heirs , my whip and clogs I give , to discipline his Headstrong Dogs ; And to the Farmer , who was in such care To call this Squire to kill the foolish Hare , Among my lumber he a Rope will find , E'en let him take it , and use it as design'd : And next , I give , but let me recollect , I would do something fain , for every Sect. First to our Grave Divines , well let me see I'll give them what they want , my Charity ; Let the Non-Jurants take my Head and Ears , And learn Poor modest Fools to be more wise , Then still to be deceiv'd with Idle tales and lies . And sure the Papist cannot take it ill , If dying AEsop puts them in his Will , To them I leave my truth and moderation , They'll do them good against the next Invasion . The Presbyterians I should something leave , But they are so Rich I know not what to give : The Quakers too expect their Legacy , We'll set them down in haste , my modesty . Let all the other Sects , ( for I wont wrong 'em ) Take my Religion and divide among 'em : And now at last , it is my will and mind , Some honest wealthy Cit would be so kind To see all this perform'd , and for his pains , To take for him , and for his Heirs my Brains . Sign'd and Seal'd in the presence of , T.B. T.D. and E.S. LONDO , Printed for the Author . 1698 , H : 313742 AESOP'S Last Will and Testament . POOR AEsop being taken ill , But yet of perfect mind , thus makes his Will : First , I bequeathe my Soul , when I forsake it , To him that has the chiefest Right to take it . My Body next , ( let me consider well ) To him , that will convey it out of smell ; My Worldly Goods , although they are but few , My scribing Friends , those I bequeathe to you . And were I sure that he'd accept of it , My Friend of Quality should have my With Next to the Squire , that with his Horse and Hounds , Leap't o'er his Tenants Hedge , and broke his Mounds : To him , and to his Heirs , my whip and clogs I give , to discipline his Headstrong Dogs ; And to the Farmer , who was in such care To call this Squire to kill the foolish Hare , Among my lumber he a Rope will find , E'en let him take it , and use it as design'd : And next , I give , but let me recollect , I would do something fain , for every Sect. First to our Grave Divines , well let me see I'll give them what they want , my Charity ; Let the Non-Jurants take my Head and Ears , And learn Poor modest Fools to be more wise , Then still to be deceiv'd with Idle tales and lies . And sure the Papist cannot take it ill , If dying AEsop puts them in his Will , To them I leave my truth and moderation , They'll do them good against the next Invasion . The Presbyterians I should something leave , But they are so Rich I know not what to give : The Quakers too expect their Legacy , We'll set them down in haste , my modesty . Let all the other Sects , ( for I wont wrong 'em ) Take my Religion and divide among 'em : And now at last , it is my will and mind , Some honest wealthy Cit would be so kind To see all this perform'd , and for his pains , To take for him , and for his Heirs my Brains . Sign'd and Seal'd in the presence of , T.B. T.D. and E.S. LONDO , Printed for the Author . 1698 , 