H : 439407 The Cities welcome to Colonel RICH and Colonel BAXTER , with their solemn Invitation to the Sainted Commanders in the Army , to come and Quarter among them . IF we may , dare to say , That you most welcome are , Most holy , holy , Colonels , Great Mogulls of the War : Our blessed Parliament , Most wisely for you sent , Your Forces near to draw For to keep us in awe . For we are sure to be Your Vassals , and your Slaves , And 'tis but Justice we confess , That Knaves should stoop to Knaves : We were the first that strove , Such was our Zealous love , We are the last shall smart , But you shall bear a part . Therefore come with Fife and Drum , You Army that are Sainted , And Quarter here among us , We long to be acquainted : Oh 'twill be very brave , Free-Quarter here to have , Each house turn'd to and Inn , What wonders then begin ? Hewson , we have been to thee , E're now obliged much , For Shoes which thou hast sold us , Therefore we shall not grutch . Pride , thee we shall not jeer , Thou ever brought'st good Beer , Measure thou did'st allow , Wee'l liquour thee I vow . [ C ] ol . Hew - [ son ] a Sho - [ m ] aker [ Counterfeit ] l. Pride [ so ] metime [ a ] Dray - [ m ] and . Okey , thou hast e're now , Before we were such Noddies , Although thou stolest half in half , Made Garments for our bodies . Staines , pray be thou not missed , Who art and Alchemist , When we have spent our store , Thy Stone will help to more . [ Counterfeit ] l. Okey a [ Ta ] ylor . Staines a cozening Alchemist Watson , thee I long to see By God , and by the Hallowes , We are glad that for embating Coin , Thou lately scap'st the Gallows . Come Lambert , there's a Crew Would be baptiz'd a new , Come with thy Troops to Town , Help Maids and Wives to drown . Watson a Clipper . Lambert a Dipper . Oliver , we thee prefer , To guide these boys unto us , Thou art the King of our New State , And worthy to undo us : Thy Nose and fiery Face , Speaks thee a babe of Grace , And most regenerate , As Sack did e're create . King Cromwell . There's no such thing as CHARLES our King , We here renounce Him ever , Wee'le have no King , but thee sweet Nol , Or Tom that glorious Feather : Our houses wee'le prepare For thy brave men of War , Our Wives we will adorn , He's happy wears the Horn . Don't you believe we will deceive Our trust , or the least harm you , Or that we will a rising make , And then by force disarm you : Or that when as you sleep , Wee'le on your faces peep , And for to gain your Coats , Most wisely cut your throats . You cannot sure but be secure 'Mongst us that first did raise you , Who have allow'd you constant pay , And evermore did praise you : Do you not fear to venture among us for to enter , You know the Danes thriv'd well Until the dismal Knell . Alas you know , the case is so , We now must be content To smart for our base follies , Our Trusty Parliament ( And you ) have jointly now agreed To prey on all we have , But yet by God wee'le break the rod , And fight , our goods to save . The Scottish Nation are out of fashion , You have no farther need , But Jockey is resolved To come on this side Tweed : They'l now not be content , To have their Money sent , They'l come themselves and strain , And then turn back again . But first those men accursed , That have abus'd their King , They mean to call to and account For their good Governing : Say must no longer Rule , Nor Martin that same Mule , And all the Holy Flock Must taste the Chopping-block . White-hall now I know not how , Is topsie-turvey turn'd , The Thimble-makers bonney boys Have private Mansions scorn'd : Kings Houses only be Fit for our Soldiery , Parliament , Army , All , Are Kings in General . Col. Bax - ter . Come then deer Brethren , and Fortify the City , All that is in't we know is yours , Yet pray show us some pity ; Or rather be so wise , To follow this advice , Keep your selves where you are , For we your Mars shall mar . Finis . Printed in the Year , 1648. H : 439407 The Cities welcome to Colonel RICH and Colonel BAXTER , with their solemn Invitation to the Sainted Commanders in the Army , to come and Quarter among them . IF we may , dare to say , That you most welcome are , Most holy , holy , Colonels , Great Mogulls of the War : Our blessed Parliament , Most wisely for you sent , Your Forces near to draw For to keep us in awe . For we are sure to be Your Vassals , and your Slaves , And 'tis but Justice we confess , That Knaves should stoop to Knaves : We were the first that strove , Such was our Zealous love , We are the last shall smart , But you shall bear a part . Therefore come with Fife and Drum , You Army that are Sainted , And Quarter here among us , We long to be acquainted : Oh 'twill be very brave , Free-Quarter here to have , Each house turn'd to and Inn , What wonders then begin ? Hewson , we have been to thee , E're now obliged much , For Shoes which thou hast sold us , Therefore we shall not grutch . Pride , thee we shall not jeer , Thou ever brought'st good Beer , Measure thou did'st allow , Wee'l liquour thee I vow . [ C ] ol . Hew - [ son ] a Sho - [ m ] aker [ Counterfeit ] l. Pride [ so ] metime [ a ] Dray - [ m ] and . Okey , thou hast e're now , Before we were such Noddies , Although thou stolest half in half , Made Garments for our bodies . Staines , pray be thou not missed , Who art and Alchemist , When we have spent our store , Thy Stone will help to more . [ Counterfeit ] l. Okey a [ Ta ] ylor . Staines a cozening Alchemist Watson , thee I long to see By God , and by the Hallowes , We are glad that for embating Coin , Thou lately scap'st the Gallows . Come Lambert , there's a Crew Would be baptiz'd a new , Come with thy Troops to Town , Help Maids and Wives to drown . Watson a Clipper . Lambert a Dipper . Oliver , we thee prefer , To guide these boys unto us , Thou art the King of our New State , And worthy to undo us : Thy Nose and fiery Face , Speaks thee a babe of Grace , And most regenerate , As Sack did e're create . King Cromwell . There's no such thing as CHARLES our King , We here renounce Him ever , Wee'le have no King , but thee sweet Nol , Or Tom that glorious Feather : Our houses wee'le prepare For thy brave men of War , Our Wives we will adorn , He's happy wears the Horn . Don't you believe we will deceive Our trust , or the least harm you , Or that we will a rising make , And then by force disarm you : Or that when as you sleep , Wee'le on your faces peep , And for to gain your Coats , Most wisely cut your throats . You cannot sure but be secure 'Mongst us that first did raise you , Who have allow'd you constant pay , And evermore did praise you : Do you not fear to venture among us for to enter , You know the Danes thriv'd well Until the dismal Knell . Alas you know , the case is so , We now must be content To smart for our base follies , Our Trusty Parliament ( And you ) have jointly now agreed To prey on all we have , But yet by God wee'le break the rod , And fight , our goods to save . The Scottish Nation are out of fashion , You have no farther need , But Jockey is resolved To come on this side Tweed : They'l now not be content , To have their Money sent , They'l come themselves and strain , And then turn back again . But first those men accursed , That have abus'd their King , They mean to call to and account For their good Governing : Say must no longer Rule , Nor Martin that same Mule , And all the Holy Flock Must taste the Chopping-block . White-hall now I know not how , Is topsie-turvey turn'd , The Thimble-makers bonney boys Have private Mansions scorn'd : Kings Houses only be Fit for our Soldiery , Parliament , Army , All , Are Kings in General . Col. Bax - ter . Come then deer Brethren , and Fortify the City , All that is in't we know is yours , Yet pray show us some pity ; Or rather be so wise , To follow this advice , Keep your selves where you are , For we your Mars shall mar . Finis . Printed in the Year , 1648. 