H : 439409 THE CREATION OF THE WORLD . Being the first Chapter of Genesis . The first Days Work . THE first Day ( as Eternity decreed ) From Gods divine Idea did proceed The matter of all things in Heaven and Earth , From whence all other Creatures took their birth . Nothing did yet the formless Earth adorn , Yet Earth , was Earth , and Water had it's form . Th' Elements were involved each in other , Darkness the Visage of the deep did cover , On which was moved Gods Almighty Spirit , At whose command the Air did light inherit . Then from the Darkness , he divides the Light , And gives them their first names of Day and Night . The second Days Work . THe second Day th'almighty Architect , To rooffe the world did th' arched Heaven erec Commanding there should be a Firmament , That might divide the Watery Element In midst of which was fram'd the fixed Sphere , And Waters suddenly divided were . Part of the Water still remain'd below , And part above the Firmament did flow . The Firmament the Maker called Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The third Days Work . THe third Day by the word of Gods command , His Will being to discover the dry Land , Was turn'd with speed the watery Element Into the Womb of the Earth's continent . He gave them then their names of Earth and Seas , Which work was good , and did the Maker please . The Earth conceiving from his quickening word , The plenty of her Womb did straight afford . Unsown Grass , unset Herbs , unplanted Trees , All yielding Seed , and Fruit , in their degrees : Refreshed by the yet Chaos of the Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The fourth Days Work . THe fourth days work , because Earth's fruitful Bed , Should not with darkness be enveloped : That Creatures might enjoy the fostering Light , And for division of the Day and Nigh That might for Seasons perjod out the Year , And Signs Phenominall to th' earth appear . Out of the substance which was late Aquatic , God made the Spheres , Stars fixed and erratic . The Sun with greater light to rule the Day , And lesser Moon to have the Nightly sway . The Stars as Rulers over Day and Night , To divide the darkness from the shining Light . God placed in the Firmament of Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The fifth Days Work . THis Day th' Almighty in his first Division , Produc'd a great part of the world's Provision All Flesh and Foul ; which at his bounteous word The pregnant Waters plenteously afford . And now the great Leviathan hegins , To rouse himself , and shake his numerous Fines . All living Creatures in abundance move , Both in the Watery Mound and Air above . Birds now begin to warble out their theames : And Fish to dance Lavoltas on the streams . God blessed them forthwith , and bade them be , All fruitful in their kinds and Multiply : To which he gave concurrence from the Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The sixt Days Work . THe sixt Day God commanded to the Earth , That living Creatures thence should issue forth . At which the Kingly Lion in his force , The Camel , Elephant , and the useful Horse : Beasts , Cattle , all things to the creeping Worm , Came forth their Causes in their kind and form . Now let us make Man , said th'almighty Maker , And let him of our likeness be Partaker : And on him let Dominion be estated , Over all Creatures that we have created . Man suddenly with every Creature stood , Before his Makers Face complete and good , From the low Centre to the highest Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The seventh Day . THe seventh Day the Lord sanctified and blessed , Because it was the Sabbath of his Rest. Commanding that nothing should be done , On it , neither by Father nor the Son , Servant nor Stranger ought within our Gate , No not our Cattle would it violate : Contemplate here ( Oh Man ) wherefore the Lord , In the sixfold division of his Word , Would limit so his power omnipotent , But only to give thee a presiden That thou all idleness and slougth shouldst fly , And earn thy Bred by honest industry . Six Days he made the full and utmost measure , For thee to work and dig thy worldly treasure ; By Land and Sea to triffick for thy food , Do this , and see that all thou dost be good : So near as thou canst imitate thy Maker , That of his Sabbath thou mayest be Partaker . LONDON , Printed by John Hammond , 1646. H : 439409 THE CREATION OF THE WORLD . Being the first Chapter of Genesis . The first Days Work . THE first Day ( as Eternity decreed ) From Gods divine Idea did proceed The matter of all things in Heaven and Earth , From whence all other Creatures took their birth . Nothing did yet the formless Earth adorn , Yet Earth , was Earth , and Water had it's form . Th' Elements were involved each in other , Darkness the Visage of the deep did cover , On which was moved Gods Almighty Spirit , At whose command the Air did light inherit . Then from the Darkness , he divides the Light , And gives them their first names of Day and Night . The second Days Work . THe second Day th'almighty Architect , To rooffe the world did th' arched Heaven erec Commanding there should be a Firmament , That might divide the Watery Element In midst of which was fram'd the fixed Sphere , And Waters suddenly divided were . Part of the Water still remain'd below , And part above the Firmament did flow . The Firmament the Maker called Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The third Days Work . THe third Day by the word of Gods command , His Will being to discover the dry Land , Was turn'd with speed the watery Element Into the Womb of the Earth's continent . He gave them then their names of Earth and Seas , Which work was good , and did the Maker please . The Earth conceiving from his quickening word , The plenty of her Womb did straight afford . Unsown Grass , unset Herbs , unplanted Trees , All yielding Seed , and Fruit , in their degrees : Refreshed by the yet Chaos of the Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The fourth Days Work . THe fourth days work , because Earth's fruitful Bed , Should not with darkness be enveloped : That Creatures might enjoy the fostering Light , And for division of the Day and Nigh That might for Seasons perjod out the Year , And Signs Phenominall to th' earth appear . Out of the substance which was late Aquatic , God made the Spheres , Stars fixed and erratic . The Sun with greater light to rule the Day , And lesser Moon to have the Nightly sway . The Stars as Rulers over Day and Night , To divide the darkness from the shining Light . God placed in the Firmament of Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The fifth Days Work . THis Day th' Almighty in his first Division , Produc'd a great part of the world's Provision All Flesh and Foul ; which at his bounteous word The pregnant Waters plenteously afford . And now the great Leviathan hegins , To rouse himself , and shake his numerous Fines . All living Creatures in abundance move , Both in the Watery Mound and Air above . Birds now begin to warble out their theames : And Fish to dance Lavoltas on the streams . God blessed them forthwith , and bade them be , All fruitful in their kinds and Multiply : To which he gave concurrence from the Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The sixt Days Work . THe sixt Day God commanded to the Earth , That living Creatures thence should issue forth . At which the Kingly Lion in his force , The Camel , Elephant , and the useful Horse : Beasts , Cattle , all things to the creeping Worm , Came forth their Causes in their kind and form . Now let us make Man , said th'almighty Maker , And let him of our likeness be Partaker : And on him let Dominion be estated , Over all Creatures that we have created . Man suddenly with every Creature stood , Before his Makers Face complete and good , From the low Centre to the highest Heaven , Concluding with the Morning and the Even . The seventh Day . THe seventh Day the Lord sanctified and blessed , Because it was the Sabbath of his Rest. Commanding that nothing should be done , On it , neither by Father nor the Son , Servant nor Stranger ought within our Gate , No not our Cattle would it violate : Contemplate here ( Oh Man ) wherefore the Lord , In the sixfold division of his Word , Would limit so his power omnipotent , But only to give thee a presiden That thou all idleness and slougth shouldst fly , And earn thy Bred by honest industry . Six Days he made the full and utmost measure , For thee to work and dig thy worldly treasure ; By Land and Sea to triffick for thy food , Do this , and see that all thou dost be good : So near as thou canst imitate thy Maker , That of his Sabbath thou mayest be Partaker . LONDON , Printed by John Hammond , 1646. 