H : 439408 THE COMMITTEE-MANS Last Will and Testamen With the Lamentation of his miserable and sad condition , being at the point of death . 1. O Me , Oh me , our Parliament , Which I hop'd aye would last , Must now dissolve , the Army's bent , They shall repentance taste . 2. And I that have thriv'd very well , Must now my self go hang , I am esteem'd and Infidel , Which makes my heartstrings twang . 3. Those good men that have sat seven years , For to reform their Nation The vulgar now them scoffs and jeers , In and opprobrious fashion . 4. O they will never have more plate Brought into Goldsmiths Hall , And I'm afeard preposterous Fate Hath nul'd their Votings all . 5. There's no man now cares what we say , Nor will obedience give , Our Order now none will obey , But as they list will live . 6. O that it ere should come to pass , The King should hope to be A Monarch , as of late he was , And we our ruin see ! 7. No man will now stir at our call , But each man fully sees , That they have been deceived all , And now curse their Trustees . 8. I shall no more get in one day Five Marks , due for my fitting , For why , the sturdy Commons say , We with their coin are flitting . 9. Maynard is gone , and Hollis too , But we are left behind , And Lewis now is gone to view , Cambro-Britannias kind . 10. And Walter Long is run away , And Nicolls that Esquire , Colonel Harley durst not stay , But left us in the fire . 11. O the brave days that I have seen , Which splits my heart in twaine ! Now I can say such days have been , Near shall be seen again . 12. When I could sequestrations make , For my own profit best , And from men what I listed take , They'd thank me for the rest . 13. But now all's gone , all's lost , and we A true account must give ; Which if it be followed rigorously , Who can gain a reprieve ? 14. O Derrick , I do thee implore , To cast me gently off ; That so I do not stink , before Thou dost my breeches doff . 15. And now I do my farewell take Of King and Parliament ; Yet 'fore I go , my Will will make , Pray hear my Testament . I That have liv'd the longest that I can , And now must die , a false Committeeman , Do give my soul to him that gave it me , But would the Devil should a sharer be : Or else , because the devil was at my call , I give him this my body , soul and all , In hope , mov'd by my love , he may prefer Me when in hell , to be his Treasurer ; For that in casting up accounts , I'm skilled , And have my bags with filched money filled . My cheating quirks I to Promoters give , And such as by the Peoples crimes do live : My base dissembling , vile hypocrisy I give the Elders of the Presbytery . My treachery , and falseness to my King , I give to the Scotch Nations managing ; That they , well stocked , may 'gainst another day , Not fail succeeding Princes to betray . All I have bad I have bequeath'd , and more Alas I have not I spent all before . FINIS . Printed in the Year 1647. H : 439408 THE COMMITTEE-MANS Last Will and Testamen With the Lamentation of his miserable and sad condition , being at the point of death . 1. O Me , Oh me , our Parliament , Which I hop'd aye would last , Must now dissolve , the Army's bent , They shall repentance taste . 2. And I that have thriv'd very well , Must now my self go hang , I am esteem'd and Infidel , Which makes my heartstrings twang . 3. Those good men that have sat seven years , For to reform their Nation The vulgar now them scoffs and jeers , In and opprobrious fashion . 4. O they will never have more plate Brought into Goldsmiths Hall , And I'm afeard preposterous Fate Hath nul'd their Votings all . 5. There's no man now cares what we say , Nor will obedience give , Our Order now none will obey , But as they list will live . 6. O that it ere should come to pass , The King should hope to be A Monarch , as of late he was , And we our ruin see ! 7. No man will now stir at our call , But each man fully sees , That they have been deceived all , And now curse their Trustees . 8. I shall no more get in one day Five Marks , due for my fitting , For why , the sturdy Commons say , We with their coin are flitting . 9. Maynard is gone , and Hollis too , But we are left behind , And Lewis now is gone to view , Cambro-Britannias kind . 10. And Walter Long is run away , And Nicolls that Esquire , Colonel Harley durst not stay , But left us in the fire . 11. O the brave days that I have seen , Which splits my heart in twaine ! Now I can say such days have been , Near shall be seen again . 12. When I could sequestrations make , For my own profit best , And from men what I listed take , They'd thank me for the rest . 13. But now all's gone , all's lost , and we A true account must give ; Which if it be followed rigorously , Who can gain a reprieve ? 14. O Derrick , I do thee implore , To cast me gently off ; That so I do not stink , before Thou dost my breeches doff . 15. And now I do my farewell take Of King and Parliament ; Yet 'fore I go , my Will will make , Pray hear my Testament . I That have liv'd the longest that I can , And now must die , a false Committeeman , Do give my soul to him that gave it me , But would the Devil should a sharer be : Or else , because the devil was at my call , I give him this my body , soul and all , In hope , mov'd by my love , he may prefer Me when in hell , to be his Treasurer ; For that in casting up accounts , I'm skilled , And have my bags with filched money filled . My cheating quirks I to Promoters give , And such as by the Peoples crimes do live : My base dissembling , vile hypocrisy I give the Elders of the Presbytery . My treachery , and falseness to my King , I give to the Scotch Nations managing ; That they , well stocked , may 'gainst another day , Not fail succeeding Princes to betray . All I have bad I have bequeath'd , and more Alas I have not I spent all before . FINIS . Printed in the Year 1647. 