H : 439410 A Justification of the Synod of Sion College , against those , who say they have sat long , and done nothing . 1 THe Synod who dare to control , That fit in Sion house , The people look't for mountains , but , They have brought forth a mouse : Each man four shillings hath a day , And do you think they'l lack ho , When every man has so much pay , To drink Wine and Tobacco . The Synod have full four years sat To find out a Religion , Yet to conclude , they know not what , They want a new Edition . 2. Say all wise men , what shall we be , Brownists , or else Presbyters , Of the Antinomian Heresy , Or Independent-Fighters : Shall we be harmless Adamites , And wear no clothes upon us , Or shall we be base Catamites , And damn Religion from us . The Synod have etc 3. Shall we be brave Apostolics , Or else all turn mad Arrians , Or shall we leave such cursed tricks And bee Episcoparians : Shall we be of the Sect of Love , And meet in upper rooms , And do as does the Spirit move , When as the Sisters comes . The Synod have etc 4. Or shall we be , as late we were , For Government and Order , And have a King and Monarchy With Courts , the truth to further : Shall we have Music now and Copes , And kneel as we were wonted , Instead of Presbyterian Popes , Have Common-Prayer chanted . The Synod have etc 5. Pray tell us , what you do intend , For , wee'd be something feign , Will you our former errors mend , Or for one give us twaine . prey something now unto us show , Give us the bad , or better : Or what is old , or what is new , And each will be your debtor . The Synod , etc 6. I wonder much , that you should want Your learning , being huge , You having that same Usurer , Cleped Doctor G ------ But he good man is near his end , The bell now for him toles , Black-Friers poor have prayed for him , Ere since he sold them coals . The Synod , etc 7. Methinks , the place should help you make Some truth for to rely on , How heavenly King David spoke , When as he dwelled in Sion . But it may be , in that your place Things cannot well be scan'd ; Why then I wish you filled that house Is in the holy Land. The Synod , etc 8. The Anabaptists are content You should fit there for ever , And say as't please the Parliament , While they dip in the River : The Brownists sure well pleased are , To add unto your pay , The Familists do domineer , Because you nothing say . The Synod have etc 9. The Independents do rejoice , They now have wone the field , They say it is the Armies voice , The Presbyters must yield : Now Case must unto Goodwin stoop , And Calamie to Dell , The Presbyters like rushes droop , Oh this is wond'rous well . The Synod , etc 10. Some say , like Tinkers you have dealt , Who mending of a kettle , Do make two more then ere were felt , Or else things will not whittle . And under a most good pretence , That we should find much ease , Religion quite is fled from hence , Pray cure us this disease . The Synod , etc 11. Dub-dapper Sydrach Sympfon now Like unto Simia flickers ; A deep and dread revenge does vow , On the Schoolmaster Vicars . And Edwards , that same Hercules , Will now write his Gangraena , And therein praise the Sectaries , The like was never seen-a . The Synod , etc 12. The Army swear , they will have none But Independents sway , And that the Presbyters each one In office t'other day ; And voted one day , and then nul'd , And then voted again , Shall all out of the House be pul'd , The others only reign . The Synod , etc 13. And now farewell O Synod brave , It is in vain to think , We a Religion ere shall have , While that your pockets chink . Four shillings ev'ry day , beside Your greasy Benefices , Makes you to have enlarged sides , But puls the truth in pieces . The Synod have full foure years sat , To find out a Religion : Yet to conclude they know not what , They want a new Edition . FINIS . Printed in the Year 1647. H : 439410 A Justification of the Synod of Sion College , against those , who say they have sat long , and done nothing . 1 THe Synod who dare to control , That fit in Sion house , The people look't for mountains , but , They have brought forth a mouse : Each man four shillings hath a day , And do you think they'l lack ho , When every man has so much pay , To drink Wine and Tobacco . The Synod have full four years sat To find out a Religion , Yet to conclude , they know not what , They want a new Edition . 2. Say all wise men , what shall we be , Brownists , or else Presbyters , Of the Antinomian Heresy , Or Independent-Fighters : Shall we be harmless Adamites , And wear no clothes upon us , Or shall we be base Catamites , And damn Religion from us . The Synod have etc 3. Shall we be brave Apostolics , Or else all turn mad Arrians , Or shall we leave such cursed tricks And bee Episcoparians : Shall we be of the Sect of Love , And meet in upper rooms , And do as does the Spirit move , When as the Sisters comes . The Synod have etc 4. Or shall we be , as late we were , For Government and Order , And have a King and Monarchy With Courts , the truth to further : Shall we have Music now and Copes , And kneel as we were wonted , Instead of Presbyterian Popes , Have Common-Prayer chanted . The Synod have etc 5. Pray tell us , what you do intend , For , wee'd be something feign , Will you our former errors mend , Or for one give us twaine . prey something now unto us show , Give us the bad , or better : Or what is old , or what is new , And each will be your debtor . The Synod , etc 6. I wonder much , that you should want Your learning , being huge , You having that same Usurer , Cleped Doctor G ------ But he good man is near his end , The bell now for him toles , Black-Friers poor have prayed for him , Ere since he sold them coals . The Synod , etc 7. Methinks , the place should help you make Some truth for to rely on , How heavenly King David spoke , When as he dwelled in Sion . But it may be , in that your place Things cannot well be scan'd ; Why then I wish you filled that house Is in the holy Land. The Synod , etc 8. The Anabaptists are content You should fit there for ever , And say as't please the Parliament , While they dip in the River : The Brownists sure well pleased are , To add unto your pay , The Familists do domineer , Because you nothing say . The Synod have etc 9. The Independents do rejoice , They now have wone the field , They say it is the Armies voice , The Presbyters must yield : Now Case must unto Goodwin stoop , And Calamie to Dell , The Presbyters like rushes droop , Oh this is wond'rous well . The Synod , etc 10. Some say , like Tinkers you have dealt , Who mending of a kettle , Do make two more then ere were felt , Or else things will not whittle . And under a most good pretence , That we should find much ease , Religion quite is fled from hence , Pray cure us this disease . The Synod , etc 11. Dub-dapper Sydrach Sympfon now Like unto Simia flickers ; A deep and dread revenge does vow , On the Schoolmaster Vicars . And Edwards , that same Hercules , Will now write his Gangraena , And therein praise the Sectaries , The like was never seen-a . The Synod , etc 12. The Army swear , they will have none But Independents sway , And that the Presbyters each one In office t'other day ; And voted one day , and then nul'd , And then voted again , Shall all out of the House be pul'd , The others only reign . The Synod , etc 13. And now farewell O Synod brave , It is in vain to think , We a Religion ere shall have , While that your pockets chink . Four shillings ev'ry day , beside Your greasy Benefices , Makes you to have enlarged sides , But puls the truth in pieces . The Synod have full foure years sat , To find out a Religion : Yet to conclude they know not what , They want a new Edition . FINIS . Printed in the Year 1647. 