H : 472983 DIALOGUE . M. WHY am I daily thus perplexed ? Why beyond Woman's patience vexed ? Your Spurious Issue grow and thrive ; While mine are dead ere well alive . If they survive a nine days wonder , Suspicious Tongues aloud do thunder ; And straight accuse my Chastity , For your damn'd Insufficiency : You meet my Love with no desire , My Altar damps your feeble fire : Though I have infinite more Charms Than all you e'r took to your Arms. The Priest at th' Altar bows to me ; When I appear he bends the knee . His Eyes are on my Beauty's fixed , His Prayers to Heav'n and Me are mixed ; Confusedly he tells his Beads , Is out both when he Prays and Reads . I travel'd farther for your Love Than Sheba's Queen , I'l fairly prove . She from the South , 'tis said did room , And I as far from East did come . But here the diff'rence does arise , Though equally we sought the Prize ; What that great Queen desir'd she gain'd , But I soon found your Treasury drain'd , Your Veins corrupted in your Youth , 'Tis sad Experience tells this Truth : Though I had caution long before Of that which I too late deplore . J. Pray , Madam , let me silence break , As I have you , now hear me speak . These stories sure must please you well , You're apt so often them to tell . But , if you'l smooth your brow a while , And turn that Pout into a Smile , I doubt not , but to make't appear , That you the great'st Aggressor are . I took you with and empty Purse , Which was to me no trivial Curse . No Dowry could your Parents give ; They'd but a Competence to live . When you appear'd , your charming Eyes ( As you relate ) did me surprise , With Wonder , not with Admiration , Astonishment , but no Temptation : Nor did I see in all your frame Ought could create and amorous flame , Or raise the least Desire in me , Save only for Variety . I paid such Service as was due , Worthy my self , and worthy you : Caress'd you far above the rate Both of your Birth and your Estate . When soon I found your haughty mind Was unto Sov'reignty inclin'd ; And first you practis'd over me The heavy Yoke of Tyranny , While I your Property was made , And you , not I , was still obey'd : Nor durst I call my Soul my own , You manag'd me as if I'd none . I took such measures as you gave , All day your Fool , all night your Slave . Nor was Ambition bounded here , You still resolv'd your course to steer : All that oppose you , you remove ; 'Twas much you'd own the Powers above . Now several Stratagems you try , And I'm in all forc'd to comply . To Mother Church you take Recourse , She tells you 'tmust be done by force ; And you , impatient of delay , Contrive and execute the way . When mounted to the Place you sought , It no Contentment with it borough One Tree within you Prospect stood Fairest and tallest of the Wood ; Which to your Prospect gave offence , And it must be remov'd from thence . In this you also are obye'd , While all the Fault on me is laid . Now you was quiet for a while , As flattering Weather seems to smile , Till buzzing Beetles of the Night Had found fresh matter for your spite , And set to work your busy Brain , Which took Fire quickly from their Train . Some Wise , some Valiant , you remove , 'Cause they your Maxims don't approve ; And in their stead such Creatures place Which to th' Employments brings Disgrace : While whatfoe're you do I own , And still the dirt on me is thrown . Strait new Chimera's fill your Brain , The humming Beetles buz again ; A Goal-Delivery now must be , All tender Consciences set free ; Not out of Zeal , but pure Design To make Dissenters with us join To pull down Test and Penal Laws , The Bulwark of the Heretics Cause . The sly Dissenters laugh the while , They see where lurks the Serpents guile ; And rather than with us comply , Will on our Enemies rely . The Chieftains of the Protestant Cause We did confine , though 'gainst the Laws ; But soon was glad to set 'em free , Fearing the giddy Mobile . Now all is turning upside down , Loud Murmuring's in every Town ; We've Foes abroad and Foes at home , Armies and Fleets against us come : The Protestants do laugh the while , And the Dissenters sneer and smile ; But no Assistance either sends ; They're neither Enemies nor Friends . Now pray conclude what must be done , Consult your Oracle of ROME , For next fair Wind besure they come . FINIS . H : 472983 DIALOGUE . M. WHY am I daily thus perplexed ? Why beyond Woman's patience vexed ? Your Spurious Issue grow and thrive ; While mine are dead ere well alive . If they survive a nine days wonder , Suspicious Tongues aloud do thunder ; And straight accuse my Chastity , For your damn'd Insufficiency : You meet my Love with no desire , My Altar damps your feeble fire : Though I have infinite more Charms Than all you e'r took to your Arms. The Priest at th' Altar bows to me ; When I appear he bends the knee . His Eyes are on my Beauty's fixed , His Prayers to Heav'n and Me are mixed ; Confusedly he tells his Beads , Is out both when he Prays and Reads . I travel'd farther for your Love Than Sheba's Queen , I'l fairly prove . She from the South , 'tis said did room , And I as far from East did come . But here the diff'rence does arise , Though equally we sought the Prize ; What that great Queen desir'd she gain'd , But I soon found your Treasury drain'd , Your Veins corrupted in your Youth , 'Tis sad Experience tells this Truth : Though I had caution long before Of that which I too late deplore . J. Pray , Madam , let me silence break , As I have you , now hear me speak . These stories sure must please you well , You're apt so often them to tell . But , if you'l smooth your brow a while , And turn that Pout into a Smile , I doubt not , but to make't appear , That you the great'st Aggressor are . I took you with and empty Purse , Which was to me no trivial Curse . No Dowry could your Parents give ; They'd but a Competence to live . When you appear'd , your charming Eyes ( As you relate ) did me surprise , With Wonder , not with Admiration , Astonishment , but no Temptation : Nor did I see in all your frame Ought could create and amorous flame , Or raise the least Desire in me , Save only for Variety . I paid such Service as was due , Worthy my self , and worthy you : Caress'd you far above the rate Both of your Birth and your Estate . When soon I found your haughty mind Was unto Sov'reignty inclin'd ; And first you practis'd over me The heavy Yoke of Tyranny , While I your Property was made , And you , not I , was still obey'd : Nor durst I call my Soul my own , You manag'd me as if I'd none . I took such measures as you gave , All day your Fool , all night your Slave . Nor was Ambition bounded here , You still resolv'd your course to steer : All that oppose you , you remove ; 'Twas much you'd own the Powers above . Now several Stratagems you try , And I'm in all forc'd to comply . To Mother Church you take Recourse , She tells you 'tmust be done by force ; And you , impatient of delay , Contrive and execute the way . When mounted to the Place you sought , It no Contentment with it borough One Tree within you Prospect stood Fairest and tallest of the Wood ; Which to your Prospect gave offence , And it must be remov'd from thence . In this you also are obye'd , While all the Fault on me is laid . Now you was quiet for a while , As flattering Weather seems to smile , Till buzzing Beetles of the Night Had found fresh matter for your spite , And set to work your busy Brain , Which took Fire quickly from their Train . Some Wise , some Valiant , you remove , 'Cause they your Maxims don't approve ; And in their stead such Creatures place Which to th' Employments brings Disgrace : While whatfoe're you do I own , And still the dirt on me is thrown . Strait new Chimera's fill your Brain , The humming Beetles buz again ; A Goal-Delivery now must be , All tender Consciences set free ; Not out of Zeal , but pure Design To make Dissenters with us join To pull down Test and Penal Laws , The Bulwark of the Heretics Cause . The sly Dissenters laugh the while , They see where lurks the Serpents guile ; And rather than with us comply , Will on our Enemies rely . The Chieftains of the Protestant Cause We did confine , though 'gainst the Laws ; But soon was glad to set 'em free , Fearing the giddy Mobile . Now all is turning upside down , Loud Murmuring's in every Town ; We've Foes abroad and Foes at home , Armies and Fleets against us come : The Protestants do laugh the while , And the Dissenters sneer and smile ; But no Assistance either sends ; They're neither Enemies nor Friends . Now pray conclude what must be done , Consult your Oracle of ROME , For next fair Wind besure they come . FINIS . 