H : 479698 A NEW SONG , OR , The Whigs Hard Hearts ; With seasonable ADVICE to 'em . To the Tune of , Oh London thou hadst better ha' built new Bordellos . you Whigs and Dissenters , I charge you attend , Here is a sad Story as ever was told ; The River of Thames which once was your friend , Is frozen quite over with Ice bitter cold ; And the Fish that abounded , Tho' they can't well be drowned , For lack of their Liquour I fear are confounded , Then leave your Rebellious and damn'd Presbytering , Or you must take up with Poor Jack and Red-Herring . Now had it been frozen with Brimstone and Fire , The wonder had been much deeper at bottom . Tho some do believe that your Sins do require A Punishment great as ere fell upon Sodom ! But then the poor Fish Had been dress'd to your Dish , And 'stead of a Plague you had then had your wish . Pikes , Flounders , together with Gudgeons & Roaches , Had serv'd to the Luxury of your Debauches . But ( alas ! ) to Instruct you this Frost now is sent , As if it would show you your Consciences harden'd , And if each Mother's Child make not haste to Repent , How the Devil d'ye think you shall ever be Pardon'd ! 'Tis a very sad Case As ever yet was , That the River should suffer for every Ass ! Poor Thames , thou mai'st curse the foul Lake of Geneva , For whose faults thou dost penance sans hope of Re-prieve-a . This Thames ( Oh the Whigs ! ) brought you plenty and pride So you harden'd your hearts with your silver and gold ; But if ever you hope to Redeem Time or Tide , Hight must your Repentance , your Zeal must grow cold : Your Hungry Zeal For rank Common-Weal Will hurry you Headlong all down to the De'l : Then melt your hard Hearts , and your Wealth spread abroad If ever you hope that your Thames shall be Thaw'd . Make haste and be soon Reconcil'd to the Truth , Or you may lament it both old men and young : For , suppose , e'ry Shop should be turn'd to a Booth , Oh were it not sad to be told with a Tongue ! Shou'd Cheapside advance Up to Petti-France , And London's Guild-Hall up to Westminster's Dance , Oh what wou'd become of your wealthy brave Chamber If e'r it were forc'd so far Westward to Clamber ? Cooks Shops with hight Victuals , and Taverns with Wine Already are seen on the River with plenty , Which are fill'd ev'ry morning before you can Dine , By Two's and by Three's , I dare warrant you Twenty ; Jack , Tom , Will and Harry , Nan , Sue , Dol and Mary Come here to devour Plum-Cake and Canary ; And if with their Dancing and Wine they be tir'd , For a Tester a piece there's a Coach to be Hir'd . Here's Gingerbread , Small-Coal , & Hot-pudding pies , With Bred and Cheese , Brandy , and good Ale & Beer . Beside the Plum-Cakes too , there's large Cakes of Ice , Enough to invite him that will to come here ! All which does betide To punish your Pride ; Y are plagu'd now with Ice cause you lov'd to back slide , Methinks it should learn you to altar your station , For , y'have hitherto built on a slipp'ry Foundation . the Merchant's to Greenland now leave off your Sailing , And for your Train Oil your selves never solicit ; For here is no fear of your Merchandise failing , Since the Whale's I'm afraid , mean to give us a visit , Great Leviathan May swim to England To see the worst Monster , a Presbyterian ! Was ever a Vengeance so wondered shown , That a River so great should be turn'd to a Town . London , Printed by G. Croom , on the River of Thames , near the Temple , 1684. H : 479698 A NEW SONG , OR , The Whigs Hard Hearts ; With seasonable ADVICE to 'em . To the Tune of , Oh London thou hadst better ha' built new Bordellos . you Whigs and Dissenters , I charge you attend , Here is a sad Story as ever was told ; The River of Thames which once was your friend , Is frozen quite over with Ice bitter cold ; And the Fish that abounded , Tho' they can't well be drowned , For lack of their Liquour I fear are confounded , Then leave your Rebellious and damn'd Presbytering , Or you must take up with Poor Jack and Red-Herring . Now had it been frozen with Brimstone and Fire , The wonder had been much deeper at bottom . Tho some do believe that your Sins do require A Punishment great as ere fell upon Sodom ! But then the poor Fish Had been dress'd to your Dish , And 'stead of a Plague you had then had your wish . Pikes , Flounders , together with Gudgeons & Roaches , Had serv'd to the Luxury of your Debauches . But ( alas ! ) to Instruct you this Frost now is sent , As if it would show you your Consciences harden'd , And if each Mother's Child make not haste to Repent , How the Devil d'ye think you shall ever be Pardon'd ! 'Tis a very sad Case As ever yet was , That the River should suffer for every Ass ! Poor Thames , thou mai'st curse the foul Lake of Geneva , For whose faults thou dost penance sans hope of Re-prieve-a . This Thames ( Oh the Whigs ! ) brought you plenty and pride So you harden'd your hearts with your silver and gold ; But if ever you hope to Redeem Time or Tide , Hight must your Repentance , your Zeal must grow cold : Your Hungry Zeal For rank Common-Weal Will hurry you Headlong all down to the De'l : Then melt your hard Hearts , and your Wealth spread abroad If ever you hope that your Thames shall be Thaw'd . Make haste and be soon Reconcil'd to the Truth , Or you may lament it both old men and young : For , suppose , e'ry Shop should be turn'd to a Booth , Oh were it not sad to be told with a Tongue ! Shou'd Cheapside advance Up to Petti-France , And London's Guild-Hall up to Westminster's Dance , Oh what wou'd become of your wealthy brave Chamber If e'r it were forc'd so far Westward to Clamber ? Cooks Shops with hight Victuals , and Taverns with Wine Already are seen on the River with plenty , Which are fill'd ev'ry morning before you can Dine , By Two's and by Three's , I dare warrant you Twenty ; Jack , Tom , Will and Harry , Nan , Sue , Dol and Mary Come here to devour Plum-Cake and Canary ; And if with their Dancing and Wine they be tir'd , For a Tester a piece there's a Coach to be Hir'd . Here's Gingerbread , Small-Coal , & Hot-pudding pies , With Bred and Cheese , Brandy , and good Ale & Beer . Beside the Plum-Cakes too , there's large Cakes of Ice , Enough to invite him that will to come here ! All which does betide To punish your Pride ; Y are plagu'd now with Ice cause you lov'd to back slide , Methinks it should learn you to altar your station , For , y'have hitherto built on a slipp'ry Foundation . the Merchant's to Greenland now leave off your Sailing , And for your Train Oil your selves never solicit ; For here is no fear of your Merchandise failing , Since the Whale's I'm afraid , mean to give us a visit , Great Leviathan May swim to England To see the worst Monster , a Presbyterian ! Was ever a Vengeance so wondered shown , That a River so great should be turn'd to a Town . London , Printed by G. Croom , on the River of Thames , near the Temple , 1684. 