H : 480407 The BELGIC BOAR . A New SONG , to the Old Tune of Chevy-Chase . GOD prosper long our noble King , Our Hope's and Wishes all ; A fatal Landing late there did , In Devonshire befall . To drive our Monarch from his Throne , Prince Naso took his way : The Babe may rue that's newly born , The landing at Torbay . The stubborn Tarquin void of Grace , A Vow to Hell does make , To force his Father Abdicate , And then his Crown to take . And eke the Royal Infant-Prince , To seize or drive away ; These Tidings to our Sov'reign came , In Whitehall where he lay . Who unconcern'd at the Report , At first would not believe , That any of his Royal Raze Such Mischiefs could conceive . Till Time which ripens all Things , did The Villainy disclose ; And of a Nephew and a Son Forg'd out the worst of Foes . Who by Infernal Instinct led , A mighty Fleet prepares , His Father's Kingdom to invade , And fill his Heart with Cares . Our Gracious King desires to know , What his Pretensions were , And how without his Leave , he durst Presume on Landing here . Declaring what was deem'd amiss , Should soon amended be , And whatsoe're should be desir'd , He would thereto agree . And for a speedy Parl'ament , He does forthwith declare ; The Surly Brutus not minding this ; Does to our Coast repair . With several Thousand Belgic Boars , All chosen Rogues for spite , Join'd with some Rebels who from hence And Justice had ta'ne flight . Who arm'd with Malice & with Hope's , Soon threw themselves on Shore ; Crying , our Religion and our Laws They came for to restore . Then Declarations flew about As thick as any Hail , Which though no Word was e're made good Did mightily prevail . We must be Papists or be Slaves , Was then the Gen'ral Cry ; But we'll do any thing to save our Darling Liberty . We'll all join with a Foreign Prince , Against our Lawful King ; For he from all our fancy'd Fears , Deliverance does bring . And if what he declares proves true , As who knows but it may ; Were he the Devil of a Prince , We'll rather him obey . Then our Allegiance let's cast off , James shall no longer guide us ; And tho' the French would bridle us , None but the Dutch shall ride us . And those who will not join with us , In this Design so brave , Their Houses we'll pull down or burn , And seize on what they have . These growing Evils to prevent , Our King his Force does bend ; But among those he most did trust , He scarce had left one Friend . O how my very Heart does bleed , To think how basely they Who long had eaten Royal Bred Their Master did betray ! And And those to whom he'd been most kind And greatest Favours shown , Appear'd to be the very first Who sought him to Dethrone . O Compton ! Langston ! and the rest Who basely from him ran , Your Names for ever be accurs'd By ev'ry English Man. Proud Tarquin he pursues his Game , And quickly makes it plain , He came not to redress our Wrongs , But England's Crown to gain . And o're his Father's mangled Fame , His Chariot proudly drives , While he , Good Man , altho' in vain , To pacify him strives . But he ingrateful ! wou'd not hear His Offers tho' so kind , But caus'd the noble Messenger Forthwith to be confin'd . He brings his Nasty Croaking Crew Unto his Father's Gate , Dismissed his own , makes them his Guard , O dismal turn of Fate ! Also at Midnight drives him thence , Oh horrid impious thing ! Were such Affronts e're offer'd to A Father and a King ! A King so Great ! so Good ! so Just ! So Merciful to all ! His Virtue was his only Fault . And that which caus'd his Fallen . Who now is forc'd his Life to save To fly his native Land , And leave his Sceptre to be grasp'd By and ungracious Hand . Hells Journey-men are straight conven'd Who rob God of his Pow'r , Set up themselves a Stork-like King , the Subject's to devour . And to secure his Lawless Throne , Now give him all we have , And make each Freeborn English Heart Become a Belgic Slave . The Bar , the Pulpit , and the Press Nefariously combine , To cry up and usurped Pow'r , And stamp it right Divine . Our Loyalty we must melt down , And have it coin'd anew , For what was current hereofore , Will now no longer do . Our Fetters we our Selves put on , Our Selves , our Selves do bubble ; Our Conscience a mere Packhorse make Which now must carry double . O England ! when to future Times Thy Story shall be known How will they blush to think what Crimes Their Ancestors have done . But after all , what have we god By this our dear-bought King ? Why that our Scandal and Reproach Throughout the World does ring . That our Religion , Liberties , And Laws we held so dear , Are more invaded since this Change Than ever yet they were . Our Coffers drain'd , our Coin impair'd , That little that remains ; Our Persons seiz'd , nay Thoughts arraign'd , Our Freedom now is Chains . Our Traffic ruin'd , Shipping lost , Our Traders most undone ; Our bravest Heroes sacrific'd , Our ancient Glory gone . A Fatal Costly War entail'd , On this unhappy Isle ; Unless above what we deserve , Kind Heaven at last does smile . And bring our injur'd Monarch Home , And place Him on his Throne ; And to Confusion bring his Foes Which God grant may be soon . LONDON . Printed in the Year MDCXCV . H : 480407 The BELGIC BOAR . A New SONG , to the Old Tune of Chevy-Chase . GOD prosper long our noble King , Our Hope's and Wishes all ; A fatal Landing late there did , In Devonshire befall . To drive our Monarch from his Throne , Prince Naso took his way : The Babe may rue that's newly born , The landing at Torbay . The stubborn Tarquin void of Grace , A Vow to Hell does make , To force his Father Abdicate , And then his Crown to take . And eke the Royal Infant-Prince , To seize or drive away ; These Tidings to our Sov'reign came , In Whitehall where he lay . Who unconcern'd at the Report , At first would not believe , That any of his Royal Raze Such Mischiefs could conceive . Till Time which ripens all Things , did The Villainy disclose ; And of a Nephew and a Son Forg'd out the worst of Foes . Who by Infernal Instinct led , A mighty Fleet prepares , His Father's Kingdom to invade , And fill his Heart with Cares . Our Gracious King desires to know , What his Pretensions were , And how without his Leave , he durst Presume on Landing here . Declaring what was deem'd amiss , Should soon amended be , And whatsoe're should be desir'd , He would thereto agree . And for a speedy Parl'ament , He does forthwith declare ; The Surly Brutus not minding this ; Does to our Coast repair . With several Thousand Belgic Boars , All chosen Rogues for spite , Join'd with some Rebels who from hence And Justice had ta'ne flight . Who arm'd with Malice & with Hope's , Soon threw themselves on Shore ; Crying , our Religion and our Laws They came for to restore . Then Declarations flew about As thick as any Hail , Which though no Word was e're made good Did mightily prevail . We must be Papists or be Slaves , Was then the Gen'ral Cry ; But we'll do any thing to save our Darling Liberty . We'll all join with a Foreign Prince , Against our Lawful King ; For he from all our fancy'd Fears , Deliverance does bring . And if what he declares proves true , As who knows but it may ; Were he the Devil of a Prince , We'll rather him obey . Then our Allegiance let's cast off , James shall no longer guide us ; And tho' the French would bridle us , None but the Dutch shall ride us . And those who will not join with us , In this Design so brave , Their Houses we'll pull down or burn , And seize on what they have . These growing Evils to prevent , Our King his Force does bend ; But among those he most did trust , He scarce had left one Friend . O how my very Heart does bleed , To think how basely they Who long had eaten Royal Bred Their Master did betray ! And And those to whom he'd been most kind And greatest Favours shown , Appear'd to be the very first Who sought him to Dethrone . O Compton ! Langston ! and the rest Who basely from him ran , Your Names for ever be accurs'd By ev'ry English Man. Proud Tarquin he pursues his Game , And quickly makes it plain , He came not to redress our Wrongs , But England's Crown to gain . And o're his Father's mangled Fame , His Chariot proudly drives , While he , Good Man , altho' in vain , To pacify him strives . But he ingrateful ! wou'd not hear His Offers tho' so kind , But caus'd the noble Messenger Forthwith to be confin'd . He brings his Nasty Croaking Crew Unto his Father's Gate , Dismissed his own , makes them his Guard , O dismal turn of Fate ! Also at Midnight drives him thence , Oh horrid impious thing ! Were such Affronts e're offer'd to A Father and a King ! A King so Great ! so Good ! so Just ! So Merciful to all ! His Virtue was his only Fault . And that which caus'd his Fallen . Who now is forc'd his Life to save To fly his native Land , And leave his Sceptre to be grasp'd By and ungracious Hand . Hells Journey-men are straight conven'd Who rob God of his Pow'r , Set up themselves a Stork-like King , the Subject's to devour . And to secure his Lawless Throne , Now give him all we have , And make each Freeborn English Heart Become a Belgic Slave . The Bar , the Pulpit , and the Press Nefariously combine , To cry up and usurped Pow'r , And stamp it right Divine . Our Loyalty we must melt down , And have it coin'd anew , For what was current hereofore , Will now no longer do . Our Fetters we our Selves put on , Our Selves , our Selves do bubble ; Our Conscience a mere Packhorse make Which now must carry double . O England ! when to future Times Thy Story shall be known How will they blush to think what Crimes Their Ancestors have done . But after all , what have we god By this our dear-bought King ? Why that our Scandal and Reproach Throughout the World does ring . That our Religion , Liberties , And Laws we held so dear , Are more invaded since this Change Than ever yet they were . Our Coffers drain'd , our Coin impair'd , That little that remains ; Our Persons seiz'd , nay Thoughts arraign'd , Our Freedom now is Chains . Our Traffic ruin'd , Shipping lost , Our Traders most undone ; Our bravest Heroes sacrific'd , Our ancient Glory gone . A Fatal Costly War entail'd , On this unhappy Isle ; Unless above what we deserve , Kind Heaven at last does smile . And bring our injur'd Monarch Home , And place Him on his Throne ; And to Confusion bring his Foes Which God grant may be soon . LONDON . Printed in the Year MDCXCV . 