H : 480410 A NEW SONG , BEING THE TORIES Imploration FOR Protection against the Whiggs , To and Excellent New Scotch Tune . I . DEfend us from all Popish Plots , That so the People fray ; And eke from treacherous Whiggs and Scots , As bad or worse than They. From Parliaments , Long Rumps , and Tails , From House of Commons Furies ; Defend us eke from Protestant Flails , And Ignoramus Furies ! II Protect us now and evermore , From a White Sheet and Proctor , And from that Noble Peer , brought o're The Salamanca Doctor : A Doctor with a Witness , sure , Both in his Rise and Fallen ; His Exit almost as obscure , As his Original ! III . Designs and Dangers far remove From this Distressed Nation , And Damn the Traitorous Medal off , Bold Tony's 'Sociation . And may the Prick-ear'd Party , that Have Coin enough in Cupboard , Forbear to shiver and Estate , And Splinters mount for Hobbart ! IV. From sixteen Self-conceited Peers , Protect our Sovereign still ; And from the Damn'd Petitioners For the Exclusive Bill . Our King Defend , and make Him great , 'Gainst Tony upon Tony ; And from a House of Commons , that Will give the King no Money ! V. From those that did Design and Laugh At Tangier , in Distress , And were Mahometans worse by half , Than all the Moors of Fez From such as with Usurping Hand , Drive Princes to Extremes ; Confound all their Devices , and Deliver Charles and James ! VI . May they be Wise , and soon expel Th' Old Fox , th' Old Fawning Elf ; The Time draws nigh , Achitophel Shan't need to Hang himself . Impartial Furies for his sake , Brave North and Box may bring ; And make his Nose thro' Nooze to sneak , For Treason 'gainst his King . London , Printed for J.D. in the Year 1682. H : 480410 A NEW SONG , BEING THE TORIES Imploration FOR Protection against the Whiggs , To and Excellent New Scotch Tune . I . DEfend us from all Popish Plots , That so the People fray ; And eke from treacherous Whiggs and Scots , As bad or worse than They. From Parliaments , Long Rumps , and Tails , From House of Commons Furies ; Defend us eke from Protestant Flails , And Ignoramus Furies ! II Protect us now and evermore , From a White Sheet and Proctor , And from that Noble Peer , brought o're The Salamanca Doctor : A Doctor with a Witness , sure , Both in his Rise and Fallen ; His Exit almost as obscure , As his Original ! III . Designs and Dangers far remove From this Distressed Nation , And Damn the Traitorous Medal off , Bold Tony's 'Sociation . And may the Prick-ear'd Party , that Have Coin enough in Cupboard , Forbear to shiver and Estate , And Splinters mount for Hobbart ! IV. From sixteen Self-conceited Peers , Protect our Sovereign still ; And from the Damn'd Petitioners For the Exclusive Bill . Our King Defend , and make Him great , 'Gainst Tony upon Tony ; And from a House of Commons , that Will give the King no Money ! V. From those that did Design and Laugh At Tangier , in Distress , And were Mahometans worse by half , Than all the Moors of Fez From such as with Usurping Hand , Drive Princes to Extremes ; Confound all their Devices , and Deliver Charles and James ! VI . May they be Wise , and soon expel Th' Old Fox , th' Old Fawning Elf ; The Time draws nigh , Achitophel Shan't need to Hang himself . Impartial Furies for his sake , Brave North and Box may bring ; And make his Nose thro' Nooze to sneak , For Treason 'gainst his King . London , Printed for J.D. in the Year 1682. 