H : 482032 A [ N ] EXCLAMATION AGAINST POPERY : OR , A Broad-Side against ROME . Occasioned by his MAJESTIE'S Last Gracious Speech , when he was further pleas'd to Express His Zeal to Maintain the Truly Ancient Protestant Religion . By R.W. D.D. LICENSED , November the 14th . 1678. PLot on , Proud Room ! and lay thy damn'd Design As low as Hell , we'll find a Countermine : Wrack thy cursed Parts ! and when thy utmost Skill Has prov'd unable to effect thy Will ; Call thy Black Emissaries , let 'em go To summon Traitors from the Shades below , Where Infant Treason dates its Monstrous Birth ; Is nursed with Care , and after sent on Earth : To some cursed Monks , or wand'ring Jesuites Cell ; Where it thrives faster , than it did in Hell ! Call Bloody Brutus up , Lean Cassius too ; Let Faux , and Catesby both , be of the Crew ! --- Nay , rather than want Help , let your BULLS run ; And Damn the Devil , if he do not come ! Yet after all your Plots , and Hatchings , we , ( So long as CHARLES , and's Senators agree ) Will warm our Hands at Bonfires , Bells' shall Ring ; And Traytor's Knells no longer Toll , but Sing . We doubt not Room , but Maugre all thy Skill , The Glorious GOD of our Religion will , In spite of all thy Art , preserve It still ! And his peculiar Care of It to show , Defend in Health , Its Great DEFENDER too ! I'th' Interim , Do thou new Crimes invent , And we'll contrive as Subtle Punishment . 'Tis Autumn now with us ; and every Tree , Instead of Fruit , may bend with Popery . 'Twould be a Novel , though not hated Sighed , If every Bough should bear a Jesuite ! We'll meet your Plots with Pikes , Daggers with Swords ; And stead of long Cravats , we'll lend you Cords . Each Stab in Private , we'll with Use return : And while one Hangs , the other he shall Burn ; Till Tybourn's long impoverish't Squire appear Gay as the Idol , fills the Porph'ry Chair . Yes , Mighty CHARLES ! at thy Command we'll run Through Seas of Rebels Blood , to save thy Crown . Our Wives , Estates , and Children too , shall be But Whetstones to our Swords , when drawn for Thee . We'll Hack and Slash , and Shoot , till Room Condoles ; And Hell it self , is cloy'd with Traitors Souls : 'Till Godfrey's wronged Ghost ( which still does call For Shoals of Rebels to attend his Fallen ) Cries out , Dear Protestants , no more pursue Their Guilty Blood , my Manes have their Endue ! This , Mighty Monarch ! at thy Beck or Nod , Shall be effected , as Thou wer't a God ; With so much Readiness , thy Royal Tongue Shall hardly Speak , e're we Revenge the Wrong On thy cursed Enemies ; who while they state Thy Death , shall feel themselves th'intended Fate ; And by a quick Reverse , be forc't to try The Dire Effects of their own Treachery . Poor Scarlet Harlot , could'st Thou stand in want Of a Genteel , and Generous Gallant , Whose Noble Soul to Baseness could not yield ; But wou'd have try'd thy Int'rest in the Field , We had not thus thy Policies condemn'd ; But thought thee worthy of a Foe , or Friend : Both which , with equal Estimate thou'lt find , Were always valu'd by and English Mind . But Thou of late , so Treacherous do'st grow , That we should blush , to own thee either now . Base , and Perfidious too , thou dost appear ; Sland'rest a Pope , and spoyl'st and Emperor . What! is the Eagle from the Mitre flown ? Is there of Caesar nothing left in Rome ? Must that Renowned City , heretofore Fam'd for her Virtues , well as for her Pow'r ; Instead of Consuls , Vagabonds employ ? And suborn Felons MONARCHS to Destroy ? Bribe Men ( through Want made boldly desperate ) To Fireball Cities , to their Grov'ling Fate ; Whil'st Hellish Jesu'ts Porters Garbs profane ; Assist the Fire , and Bless the growing Flame ! Must Romes Great Pope , whose Piety should run As and Example , through all Christendome ; Whose Signal Virtues , Arguments should be Of his Admir'd Infallibility ? Does he hire Ruffians , Justices to Kill ; And send the Murd'rers Pardons at his Will ? Bids them in Heretics Blood their Hands imbrue ; Tells them withal , 'Tis Meritorious too ! ------ If this thy Practice be , false Rome Farewell ! --- Go , Teach thy Doctrine to the Damn'd in Hell ! Where , by Black Lucifer's Destructive Pride , Thou may'st in part thy Future Fate decide : Whil'st from our City we thy Imps remove , To shake their Heels in some cold Field or Grove . Since both by Ours , and all Men's just Esteem , They're fitter to Converse with Beasts , than Men . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for T.G. 1678. H : 482032 A [ N ] EXCLAMATION AGAINST POPERY : OR , A Broad-Side against ROME . Occasioned by his MAJESTIE'S Last Gracious Speech , when he was further pleas'd to Express His Zeal to Maintain the Truly Ancient Protestant Religion . By R.W. D.D. LICENSED , November the 14th . 1678. PLot on , Proud Room ! and lay thy damn'd Design As low as Hell , we'll find a Countermine : Wrack thy cursed Parts ! and when thy utmost Skill Has prov'd unable to effect thy Will ; Call thy Black Emissaries , let 'em go To summon Traitors from the Shades below , Where Infant Treason dates its Monstrous Birth ; Is nursed with Care , and after sent on Earth : To some cursed Monks , or wand'ring Jesuites Cell ; Where it thrives faster , than it did in Hell ! Call Bloody Brutus up , Lean Cassius too ; Let Faux , and Catesby both , be of the Crew ! --- Nay , rather than want Help , let your BULLS run ; And Damn the Devil , if he do not come ! Yet after all your Plots , and Hatchings , we , ( So long as CHARLES , and's Senators agree ) Will warm our Hands at Bonfires , Bells' shall Ring ; And Traytor's Knells no longer Toll , but Sing . We doubt not Room , but Maugre all thy Skill , The Glorious GOD of our Religion will , In spite of all thy Art , preserve It still ! And his peculiar Care of It to show , Defend in Health , Its Great DEFENDER too ! I'th' Interim , Do thou new Crimes invent , And we'll contrive as Subtle Punishment . 'Tis Autumn now with us ; and every Tree , Instead of Fruit , may bend with Popery . 'Twould be a Novel , though not hated Sighed , If every Bough should bear a Jesuite ! We'll meet your Plots with Pikes , Daggers with Swords ; And stead of long Cravats , we'll lend you Cords . Each Stab in Private , we'll with Use return : And while one Hangs , the other he shall Burn ; Till Tybourn's long impoverish't Squire appear Gay as the Idol , fills the Porph'ry Chair . Yes , Mighty CHARLES ! at thy Command we'll run Through Seas of Rebels Blood , to save thy Crown . Our Wives , Estates , and Children too , shall be But Whetstones to our Swords , when drawn for Thee . We'll Hack and Slash , and Shoot , till Room Condoles ; And Hell it self , is cloy'd with Traitors Souls : 'Till Godfrey's wronged Ghost ( which still does call For Shoals of Rebels to attend his Fallen ) Cries out , Dear Protestants , no more pursue Their Guilty Blood , my Manes have their Endue ! This , Mighty Monarch ! at thy Beck or Nod , Shall be effected , as Thou wer't a God ; With so much Readiness , thy Royal Tongue Shall hardly Speak , e're we Revenge the Wrong On thy cursed Enemies ; who while they state Thy Death , shall feel themselves th'intended Fate ; And by a quick Reverse , be forc't to try The Dire Effects of their own Treachery . Poor Scarlet Harlot , could'st Thou stand in want Of a Genteel , and Generous Gallant , Whose Noble Soul to Baseness could not yield ; But wou'd have try'd thy Int'rest in the Field , We had not thus thy Policies condemn'd ; But thought thee worthy of a Foe , or Friend : Both which , with equal Estimate thou'lt find , Were always valu'd by and English Mind . But Thou of late , so Treacherous do'st grow , That we should blush , to own thee either now . Base , and Perfidious too , thou dost appear ; Sland'rest a Pope , and spoyl'st and Emperor . What! is the Eagle from the Mitre flown ? Is there of Caesar nothing left in Rome ? Must that Renowned City , heretofore Fam'd for her Virtues , well as for her Pow'r ; Instead of Consuls , Vagabonds employ ? And suborn Felons MONARCHS to Destroy ? Bribe Men ( through Want made boldly desperate ) To Fireball Cities , to their Grov'ling Fate ; Whil'st Hellish Jesu'ts Porters Garbs profane ; Assist the Fire , and Bless the growing Flame ! Must Romes Great Pope , whose Piety should run As and Example , through all Christendome ; Whose Signal Virtues , Arguments should be Of his Admir'd Infallibility ? Does he hire Ruffians , Justices to Kill ; And send the Murd'rers Pardons at his Will ? Bids them in Heretics Blood their Hands imbrue ; Tells them withal , 'Tis Meritorious too ! ------ If this thy Practice be , false Rome Farewell ! --- Go , Teach thy Doctrine to the Damn'd in Hell ! Where , by Black Lucifer's Destructive Pride , Thou may'st in part thy Future Fate decide : Whil'st from our City we thy Imps remove , To shake their Heels in some cold Field or Grove . Since both by Ours , and all Men's just Esteem , They're fitter to Converse with Beasts , than Men . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for T.G. 1678. 