H : 489013 THE NATURE , NOBILITY , Character , and Compliment OF MONEY . Nam Genus & Formam Regina Pecunia donat . IN this word [ MONEY ] more is comprehended Than ever Tongue declar'd , or Pen commended : It governs all the Land , circles the Sea , And is the Worldling's Primum Mobile . Money hath such and influence on Men , It sets up Kings , and plucks 'em down again . Money ! it is the Crown of all Events ; It does compound for all Impediments ; It is a Spell that does all Spirits raise , Honour , Health , Power , Pleasure , Profit , Praise . Quaery . But will it buy Content ? or can it cure A cancerous Conscience ? ( Answer ) Nothing hits more sure . For you shall read in many a Roman Story , Money can free the Soul from Purgatory : It makes the Pope Infallible to be ; Because 'tis more infallible than he . For Money , Men are int' all hazards hurled , 'Tis the adored Idol of the World . Though one Sect damn another , yet , in fine , They'r all Devota's at Pecunia's Shrine : Albeit in Arguments they rant and tear , Plot and Confound , They'r all of one Mind there . The simple-seeming Quaker that will shun-ye In points of holiness , will take thy Money . The Scripture Pedlars that do prate and cant , And cry the Laurd , Money's the meaning on' among some Sects which different Tenants hold , The Gospel is but a new name for Gold ; And sacred Offices are often sold For Secular Silver . As , in days of old , All plenty was compriz'd in Milk and Honey ; So in these days all merit lies in Money . It is and does all things in every Cause ; It gives new meanings unto old made Laws . Nothing but Money can do and undo : 'Tis Pro and Con , and Moderator too . If this thing Money were not all in all , How could the Sciences be Liberal ? It does maintain the Court , the Camp , the School ; The greatest Politician's but a Fool , If he want Money : 'tis so bright , so funny , That Men fell Houses , Lands , and Towns , for Money . Down Kirk , down State , down every thing must fallen , Rather than want Interest and Principal . Money does comprehend Lawyers and Laws ; It [ is ] a Chancellor in every Cause . Meum and Tuum are the Bounds of Right ; Yet for all this Meum and Tuum figh Though Meum have the Milk , Tuum the Honey ; Yet Tuum will fallen out for Meum's Money . It rules both Right and Wrong . What makes this stir Betwixt the French , Dutch , and the Emperor , But Money , or what [ Money ] does bring forth . Navyes and Nations ? 'Tis all Money's w [ orth . ] Money is Sovereign of Sea and Shore ; It does at once , both make and heal the Soar ; It bids defiance to all shapes of Slaughter At Sea , it makes Men run through Fire and Water , Soar to the Sun , and sink to the Sea's centre , Dare Death in all his glories , so the venture Does produce Money , though but one small ray ; A Soldier will do this for a Month's pay . When Money her allicient look extends , Some Men will truck for Father's , Brother's , Friends , Which makes me pray , the King may keep his hold : His Father was the price of Gadly Gold ; And His King too , though of celestial birth : 'Twas Money bought the King of Heaven and Earth ; And that same fatal Money made the Elf , That treacherous Treasurer , to fell himself Eternally , where Money's influence Is of no power to buy him back from thence . Money does all things else ; 'twere , of the two , Shorter to say what Money cannot do , Than what it can ; our Privileges , Laws , Religion , Reformation , Good old Cause , Are all but words for Money ; It does teach The Courtier how to Flatter , Priests to Preach , Soldier to Swear , and Citizen to Lie , And is the vital Blood of Sovereignty . It makes the Aged Young , the Crooked Straight , The Dwarf a Giant , The Fool Fortunate . To close up all , ( for I but briefly show 'em ) It is fitter for a Volume than a Poem . I'le leave this Theme to those that better know it , Money's too great a stranger to a Poet . T.J. LONDON , Printed for William Thackeray [ at ] the Angel in Duck-Lane . MDCLXXXIV . H : 489013 THE NATURE , NOBILITY , Character , and Compliment OF MONEY . Nam Genus & Formam Regina Pecunia donat . IN this word [ MONEY ] more is comprehended Than ever Tongue declar'd , or Pen commended : It governs all the Land , circles the Sea , And is the Worldling's Primum Mobile . Money hath such and influence on Men , It sets up Kings , and plucks 'em down again . Money ! it is the Crown of all Events ; It does compound for all Impediments ; It is a Spell that does all Spirits raise , Honour , Health , Power , Pleasure , Profit , Praise . Quaery . But will it buy Content ? or can it cure A cancerous Conscience ? ( Answer ) Nothing hits more sure . For you shall read in many a Roman Story , Money can free the Soul from Purgatory : It makes the Pope Infallible to be ; Because 'tis more infallible than he . For Money , Men are int' all hazards hurled , 'Tis the adored Idol of the World . Though one Sect damn another , yet , in fine , They'r all Devota's at Pecunia's Shrine : Albeit in Arguments they rant and tear , Plot and Confound , They'r all of one Mind there . The simple-seeming Quaker that will shun-ye In points of holiness , will take thy Money . The Scripture Pedlars that do prate and cant , And cry the Laurd , Money's the meaning on' among some Sects which different Tenants hold , The Gospel is but a new name for Gold ; And sacred Offices are often sold For Secular Silver . As , in days of old , All plenty was compriz'd in Milk and Honey ; So in these days all merit lies in Money . It is and does all things in every Cause ; It gives new meanings unto old made Laws . Nothing but Money can do and undo : 'Tis Pro and Con , and Moderator too . If this thing Money were not all in all , How could the Sciences be Liberal ? It does maintain the Court , the Camp , the School ; The greatest Politician's but a Fool , If he want Money : 'tis so bright , so funny , That Men fell Houses , Lands , and Towns , for Money . Down Kirk , down State , down every thing must fallen , Rather than want Interest and Principal . Money does comprehend Lawyers and Laws ; It [ is ] a Chancellor in every Cause . Meum and Tuum are the Bounds of Right ; Yet for all this Meum and Tuum figh Though Meum have the Milk , Tuum the Honey ; Yet Tuum will fallen out for Meum's Money . It rules both Right and Wrong . What makes this stir Betwixt the French , Dutch , and the Emperor , But Money , or what [ Money ] does bring forth . Navyes and Nations ? 'Tis all Money's w [ orth . ] Money is Sovereign of Sea and Shore ; It does at once , both make and heal the Soar ; It bids defiance to all shapes of Slaughter At Sea , it makes Men run through Fire and Water , Soar to the Sun , and sink to the Sea's centre , Dare Death in all his glories , so the venture Does produce Money , though but one small ray ; A Soldier will do this for a Month's pay . When Money her allicient look extends , Some Men will truck for Father's , Brother's , Friends , Which makes me pray , the King may keep his hold : His Father was the price of Gadly Gold ; And His King too , though of celestial birth : 'Twas Money bought the King of Heaven and Earth ; And that same fatal Money made the Elf , That treacherous Treasurer , to fell himself Eternally , where Money's influence Is of no power to buy him back from thence . Money does all things else ; 'twere , of the two , Shorter to say what Money cannot do , Than what it can ; our Privileges , Laws , Religion , Reformation , Good old Cause , Are all but words for Money ; It does teach The Courtier how to Flatter , Priests to Preach , Soldier to Swear , and Citizen to Lie , And is the vital Blood of Sovereignty . It makes the Aged Young , the Crooked Straight , The Dwarf a Giant , The Fool Fortunate . To close up all , ( for I but briefly show 'em ) It is fitter for a Volume than a Poem . I'le leave this Theme to those that better know it , Money's too great a stranger to a Poet . T.J. LONDON , Printed for William Thackeray [ at ] the Angel in Duck-Lane . MDCLXXXIV . 