H : 480409 Bacchinalia Coelestia : A POEM , IN PRAISE OF PUNCH : Compos'd by the GODS and GODDESSES in Cabal . THE Gods and the Goddesses lately did Feast , Where Ambrosia with exquisite sauces was dres The Edibles did with their qualities suit ; But what they did drink , did occasion dispute . 'Twas time that Old Nectar should grow out of fashion , A Liquour they drank long before the Creation . When the Sky-coloured Cloth was drawn from the Board , For the Christalline Bowl great Jove gave the Word . This was a Bowl of most heavenly size , In which Infant-Gods they did use to baptise . Quoth JOVE , we're inform'd they drink Punch upon Earth , By which Mortal Wights outdo us in Mirth ; Therefore our Godheads together let's lay , 'And endeavour to make it much stronger than they . It spoke like a God , Fill the Bowl to the Top , He's cashier'd from the Sky that leaves but a Drop . APOLLO dispatch't away one of his Lasses , Who fill'd us a Pitcher from th' Well of Parnassus . To Poets new born , this Water is brought ; And this they suck in for th'ir Morning's draught . JUNO for Lemons sent into her Closet ; Which when she was sick , she infus'd into Posse For Goddesses may be as qualmish as Gipses ; The Sun and the Moon we find have Eclipses ; Those Lemons were called the Hesperian-fruit , When Vigilant Dragon was set to look to't . Three dozen of these were squeez'd into Water ; The rest of the Ingredients in order came after . VENUS , the Admirer of things that are sweet ; Without her infusion there had been no Treat ; Commanded her Sugar-Loafs , white as her Doves ; Supported to th'Table by a brace of young Loves . So wondered curious these Deities were , The Sugar they strain'd through a Sieve of thin Air . BACCHUS gave notice by dangling a Bunch , That without his assistance there could be no Punch . What was meant by his sign , was very well known ; For they threw in a Gallon of trusty Langoon ; MARS , a blunt God , though chief of the Briskers , Was seated at Table , still twirling his Whiskers ; Quoth he , fellow-Gods and Celestial Gallants ; I'd not give a fart for your Punch without Nants : Therefore Boy Ganymed I do command you To put in at least two Gallons of Brandy . SATURN , of all the Gods was the oldest , And we may imagine his stomach was coldest ; Did out of his Pouch three Nutmegs produce ; Which when they were grated , were put to the Juice . NEPTUNE this Ocean of Liquour did Crown With a hard Sea-Bisket well bak'd in the Sun. This Bowl being finish'd , a Health was began ; Quoth Jove , let it be to our Creature call'd Man. 'Tis to him alone these pleasures we owe , For Heaven was never true Heav'n till now . Since the Gods and poor Mortals thus do agree , Here's a Health unto CHARLES His Majesty . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Simon Miller , at the Star at the West-end of St. Pauls . 1680. H : 480409 Bacchinalia Coelestia : A POEM , IN PRAISE OF PUNCH : Compos'd by the GODS and GODDESSES in Cabal . THE Gods and the Goddesses lately did Feast , Where Ambrosia with exquisite sauces was dres The Edibles did with their qualities suit ; But what they did drink , did occasion dispute . 'Twas time that Old Nectar should grow out of fashion , A Liquour they drank long before the Creation . When the Sky-coloured Cloth was drawn from the Board , For the Christalline Bowl great Jove gave the Word . This was a Bowl of most heavenly size , In which Infant-Gods they did use to baptise . Quoth JOVE , we're inform'd they drink Punch upon Earth , By which Mortal Wights outdo us in Mirth ; Therefore our Godheads together let's lay , 'And endeavour to make it much stronger than they . It spoke like a God , Fill the Bowl to the Top , He's cashier'd from the Sky that leaves but a Drop . APOLLO dispatch't away one of his Lasses , Who fill'd us a Pitcher from th' Well of Parnassus . To Poets new born , this Water is brought ; And this they suck in for th'ir Morning's draught . JUNO for Lemons sent into her Closet ; Which when she was sick , she infus'd into Posse For Goddesses may be as qualmish as Gipses ; The Sun and the Moon we find have Eclipses ; Those Lemons were called the Hesperian-fruit , When Vigilant Dragon was set to look to't . Three dozen of these were squeez'd into Water ; The rest of the Ingredients in order came after . VENUS , the Admirer of things that are sweet ; Without her infusion there had been no Treat ; Commanded her Sugar-Loafs , white as her Doves ; Supported to th'Table by a brace of young Loves . So wondered curious these Deities were , The Sugar they strain'd through a Sieve of thin Air . BACCHUS gave notice by dangling a Bunch , That without his assistance there could be no Punch . What was meant by his sign , was very well known ; For they threw in a Gallon of trusty Langoon ; MARS , a blunt God , though chief of the Briskers , Was seated at Table , still twirling his Whiskers ; Quoth he , fellow-Gods and Celestial Gallants ; I'd not give a fart for your Punch without Nants : Therefore Boy Ganymed I do command you To put in at least two Gallons of Brandy . SATURN , of all the Gods was the oldest , And we may imagine his stomach was coldest ; Did out of his Pouch three Nutmegs produce ; Which when they were grated , were put to the Juice . NEPTUNE this Ocean of Liquour did Crown With a hard Sea-Bisket well bak'd in the Sun. This Bowl being finish'd , a Health was began ; Quoth Jove , let it be to our Creature call'd Man. 'Tis to him alone these pleasures we owe , For Heaven was never true Heav'n till now . Since the Gods and poor Mortals thus do agree , Here's a Health unto CHARLES His Majesty . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Simon Miller , at the Star at the West-end of St. Pauls . 1680. 