H : 18345 A SPIRITUAL SONGE OF Thanksgiving unto GOD , for his grace and power . Written by a close prisoner ( with a coal ) for his own comfort . LET others sing of this and that , I will sing to thy praise , Who dost out of adversity , Deliver me always : And stood'st to me that Comforter , In all my soar temptation : Who doth refresh my sinful soul With spiritual consolation : And graunt'st to me such patience , For all my foes despite , As I to wait upon thy will , Do inwardly delight . And when I see my nature strive Against thy just correction , Then do I pray thy Majesty To help mine unsubjection . And when my troubles most increase , ( As who lives well and smarts not ) Then comes my Saviour next to me , And sticks by me and starts not And when I feel my flesh to shrink Under thy heavy hand , I am constrain'd my wretchedness , Better to understand : Calling to mind those grievous sins , I thought not on before , Lamenting them and purposing To do the like no more : But their contrary virtues all , Eftsoon to put in ure From grace to grace , from strength to strength , Whyl'st my days shall endure : By thy free grace and perfect strength , Whereof alone I boast , For if I should do otherwise , My labour were but lost : Since all good gifts do come from thee , And thou wilt suffer none To rob thee of that praise which doth Belong to thee alone : Yet whyl'st by wrestling against sin , Reward for to obtain , I seek by desert of my works , Thou aunswer'st thus again . The answer . Whereas WHereas thy sins do far exceed , My grace doth more abound , And in thy weakness most of all , My power is tried and found : My grace in Christ sufficient is , And all my works doth pass : By it I am more glorified , Then ought that ever was : And as I made all things of nought , And darkness to be light , So make I nought for to be good , And feeble to be migh All persons and all things on earth I have shut under sin , That by my pardon , general , I might all glory win . I am the first , the midst , and last , And I am all in all , That all at all times should on me For help and mercy call . My grace is sure full free and pure , Or else it were no grace , It can not stand at any hand , Where works have any place : My power infailleable and most incomparable Is of no force in deed , When it is made of others aids , To stand in any need : Therefore I call the worst of all , And leave the righteous still , That all may see my grace to be According to my will : Therefore I bring both Clown and King To dust , to death , to nough That every wight should know my might , All things alone hath wrough Wherefore bee still and flee from ill , And do well , but confess My gifts in thee both lent to be , And marred more or less : That still my grace may serve in place All thy defaults to mend , And that my power may every hour Uphold thee to the end , When there shall no sin in thee , Weakness nor want at all , But graces might , wealth , peace , joy , right , Health and glory eternal . Thus THus dost thou Lord direct my soul To quiet peace and rest , Whereby I am assured all Shall fallen out to the best : And that no shame can me defame , For why thou art my praise , In life and death and all in all , To me at all assays , For thy great mercies sake in Christ , In whom thou art well pleased , That heavy hearted sinners of Their burdens should be eased , And made partakers of those joys Unspeakable and rife , Which thou dost keep in store for them , After this woeful life : And in mean while the holy ghost Doth keep them safe and sound : No rage nor no resistance can , Their happy state confound . Now whilst mine enemies seek to drive Me into desperation , Thou forcest them against their wills To further my salvation : And thou dost turn all wiles and wrongs Unto their own disgrace : Who seek by all extremities , Thy servants to deface . And thou dost turn all other things To my behoof likewise , So that to better mine estate , My heart can not devise . However wretched worldlings deem , I am quite cast away : And mine old friends aloof from me Do stand as at a bay : Yet thou dost stand at my right hand , And compass me about , And furnish me with diverse gifts , To make me strong and stou And outward gifts sufficient , And meet for me and mine , To serve thy grace , and show thy power By providence divine : Beyond reason without desert , Better then many more Of thy deer Saints who are content , And sing for joy also : Lord grant we pray that so we may , Since thou art strong and kind , ( As in our conscience and experience We every day do find ) That by things all which do befall , We may draw near to thee , Till thy sweet face in heavenly place , For ever we shall see . AMEN . M . D.XCII.H : 18345 A SPIRITUAL SONGE OF Thanksgiving unto GOD , for his grace and power . Written by a close prisoner ( with a coal ) for his own comfort . LET others sing of this and that , I will sing to thy praise , Who dost out of adversity , Deliver me always : And stood'st to me that Comforter , In all my soar temptation : Who doth refresh my sinful soul With spiritual consolation : And graunt'st to me such patience , For all my foes despite , As I to wait upon thy will , Do inwardly delight . And when I see my nature strive Against thy just correction , Then do I pray thy Majesty To help mine unsubjection . And when my troubles most increase , ( As who lives well and smarts not ) Then comes my Saviour next to me , And sticks by me and starts not And when I feel my flesh to shrink Under thy heavy hand , I am constrain'd my wretchedness , Better to understand : Calling to mind those grievous sins , I thought not on before , Lamenting them and purposing To do the like no more : But their contrary virtues all , Eftsoon to put in ure From grace to grace , from strength to strength , Whyl'st my days shall endure : By thy free grace and perfect strength , Whereof alone I boast , For if I should do otherwise , My labour were but lost : Since all good gifts do come from thee , And thou wilt suffer none To rob thee of that praise which doth Belong to thee alone : Yet whyl'st by wrestling against sin , Reward for to obtain , I seek by desert of my works , Thou aunswer'st thus again . The answer . Whereas WHereas thy sins do far exceed , My grace doth more abound , And in thy weakness most of all , My power is tried and found : My grace in Christ sufficient is , And all my works doth pass : By it I am more glorified , Then ought that ever was : And as I made all things of nought , And darkness to be light , So make I nought for to be good , And feeble to be migh All persons and all things on earth I have shut under sin , That by my pardon , general , I might all glory win . I am the first , the midst , and last , And I am all in all , That all at all times should on me For help and mercy call . My grace is sure full free and pure , Or else it were no grace , It can not stand at any hand , Where works have any place : My power infailleable and most incomparable Is of no force in deed , When it is made of others aids , To stand in any need : Therefore I call the worst of all , And leave the righteous still , That all may see my grace to be According to my will : Therefore I bring both Clown and King To dust , to death , to nough That every wight should know my might , All things alone hath wrough Wherefore bee still and flee from ill , And do well , but confess My gifts in thee both lent to be , And marred more or less : That still my grace may serve in place All thy defaults to mend , And that my power may every hour Uphold thee to the end , When there shall no sin in thee , Weakness nor want at all , But graces might , wealth , peace , joy , right , Health and glory eternal . Thus THus dost thou Lord direct my soul To quiet peace and rest , Whereby I am assured all Shall fallen out to the best : And that no shame can me defame , For why thou art my praise , In life and death and all in all , To me at all assays , For thy great mercies sake in Christ , In whom thou art well pleased , That heavy hearted sinners of Their burdens should be eased , And made partakers of those joys Unspeakable and rife , Which thou dost keep in store for them , After this woeful life : And in mean while the holy ghost Doth keep them safe and sound : No rage nor no resistance can , Their happy state confound . Now whilst mine enemies seek to drive Me into desperation , Thou forcest them against their wills To further my salvation : And thou dost turn all wiles and wrongs Unto their own disgrace : Who seek by all extremities , Thy servants to deface . And thou dost turn all other things To my behoof likewise , So that to better mine estate , My heart can not devise . However wretched worldlings deem , I am quite cast away : And mine old friends aloof from me Do stand as at a bay : Yet thou dost stand at my right hand , And compass me about , And furnish me with diverse gifts , To make me strong and stou And outward gifts sufficient , And meet for me and mine , To serve thy grace , and show thy power By providence divine : Beyond reason without desert , Better then many more Of thy deer Saints who are content , And sing for joy also : Lord grant we pray that so we may , Since thou art strong and kind , ( As in our conscience and experience We every day do find ) That by things all which do befall , We may draw near to thee , Till thy sweet face in heavenly place , For ever we shall see . AMEN . M.D.XCII . 