H : 489487 A DIALOGUE Between DEATH AND Doctor ROBERT WYLD , Who Died lately of and APOPLEXY . D. NO Roaring Christmas shalt Thou keep , now Roar Bold Wit ! W. Oh! o ! Hhohh ! Well! I'le cry no more , Alas , it is for Thee , not Me , to Roar . A Deadly Blow ! But where's thy Sting ? There lies The King of Terrors cow'd out ! In Sacrifice ( And Eucharist ) Lord , take this Soul to Thee , By Death Thou hast slave Death , Redeemed Me. Grave , take the Carcase , at the reck'ning Day With Interest the Principal repay . Take Worms meat ( they'l scarce lick the punched Face , ) Bring't up in Glory , though sown in Disgrace , In never-fading Beauty it shall rise , And be transplanted int' yond Paradise . ) They'l Dig the Kernels out ( the Eyes ) Dig on ! One Breakfast makes the Head a Skeleton . They'l tease the Hands , and Toes , and Paunch ( their Fence ) Intolerable Pains , have numb'd all Sense . 'Twas not Seer Sheldon , when he turn'd Me out , Did Me perplex ; no , it was Bishop Gout . Death did me vex and terrify much less , I'le now be gone out of his Diocese . I con you Thanks . Bish. Gout proceeded on , You granted me a Prohibition . Adieu , my Lord . D. I'm but a Pursuivant , To th' Court you to conduct , by Heaven sent . W. I liv'd a Martyr all my Days , now I , In flaming Spices , like a Phoenix , Dy. My Heart bleeds for the Church and State , I faint , Take of my Cordial , Surviving Saint . Proud Babel Reels , it Totters , it will Fallen , As sure as Lambeth stands against White-Hall . Come Seraphims , and bear this Soul above , Impatient to see her Vines , her Love . One Stroke , with all the Clusters , Lop'd the Vine , One chop'd off Love . Would , would ! their Lot is Mine . They were so quick at Work , their Master's Voice Soon call'd them off ; Into your Master's Joys . More Blessed Sighed I'le see , ( 'Twill satisfy ) The Glorious , Ever-blessed Trinity . Whom I Ador'd and Lov'd sometime , Him I For ev'r will Love , Admire , and Glorify ; So , so , I'll spend a Blessed Eternity , In everlasting Love , Delights and Joy . Hal -- Le -- Lu -- Jah . Alas ! Poor Scholar , hast thou felt the Stroke Of matchless Death ? Are all thine Heartstrings broke ? Who'l sing thine Iter Empyraeum ? I After thy Blood-suck send this Hue and Cry . Great Wyld is slave ! Slave ! Let this Shriek fly round Till Hills , and Dales , and Rocks , and Shores rebound , Unto Pale Pyrene , and from thence go on Over Parnassus unto Helicon . Raise up the sluggish Sisters , Three times Three , In Lamentations Drop one Elegy . Streams Ever-flowing from each Muses Eye May Spring a Fountain , now their Well is Dry . Tagus and Ganges will astonish'd be , And all th' Antipodes as well as We . Who slew the Muses Darling , of Mankind The Choice Delights ? Search out until you find . Who was't kill'd the Divine ? Who slew the Poet ? Echo . Eat ! What Nimble Chaps , what Cormorant was he Could eat up Wild ? Might not he poyson'd be ? Who poyson'd Wild ? Wakeman with all his Main Could not get Sacred Charles out of his Wain . He pawn'd his Skill , though Justice might not spy , A Plaster to the Fist affects the Eye . 'Twas Death ( that Jesuit ) so greedy grown It chapt up Robert , and let George alone . Rome's Emissary Leeches , so fine bred , Won't touch Posteriors , they chap at th' Head. AND EPITAPH . HEre lies Poor Robin , most enriched one With Nature's Dowry , Graces large Portion . Nature brought Reason , Prudence , Eloquence , And Magnanimity , Munificence , Courage and Constancy , and Matchless Wit . Grace Him adorn'd with Faith , and Hope , and Love , That Saints below he might excel , above With Patience , in none admired more ; Nature and Grace on him laid out their Store . Rome's Plot to strangle Justice in Godfrey , Hell's was ; in Wild , to choke Divinity . Here lies the Poet , here lies Poetry , Here's the Divine , here lies Divinity . Ah Fools ! and inexhausted Spring does Lie , Justice in Charles , in God , Theology . London , Printed in the Year 1679. H : 489487 A DIALOGUE Between DEATH AND Doctor ROBERT WYLD , Who Died lately of and APOPLEXY . D. NO Roaring Christmas shalt Thou keep , now Roar Bold Wit ! W. Oh! o ! Hhohh ! Well! I'le cry no more , Alas , it is for Thee , not Me , to Roar . A Deadly Blow ! But where's thy Sting ? There lies The King of Terrors cow'd out ! In Sacrifice ( And Eucharist ) Lord , take this Soul to Thee , By Death Thou hast slave Death , Redeemed Me. Grave , take the Carcase , at the reck'ning Day With Interest the Principal repay . Take Worms meat ( they'l scarce lick the punched Face , ) Bring't up in Glory , though sown in Disgrace , In never-fading Beauty it shall rise , And be transplanted int' yond Paradise . ) They'l Dig the Kernels out ( the Eyes ) Dig on ! One Breakfast makes the Head a Skeleton . They'l tease the Hands , and Toes , and Paunch ( their Fence ) Intolerable Pains , have numb'd all Sense . 'Twas not Seer Sheldon , when he turn'd Me out , Did Me perplex ; no , it was Bishop Gout . Death did me vex and terrify much less , I'le now be gone out of his Diocese . I con you Thanks . Bish. Gout proceeded on , You granted me a Prohibition . Adieu , my Lord . D. I'm but a Pursuivant , To th' Court you to conduct , by Heaven sent . W. I liv'd a Martyr all my Days , now I , In flaming Spices , like a Phoenix , Dy. My Heart bleeds for the Church and State , I faint , Take of my Cordial , Surviving Saint . Proud Babel Reels , it Totters , it will Fallen , As sure as Lambeth stands against White-Hall . Come Seraphims , and bear this Soul above , Impatient to see her Vines , her Love . One Stroke , with all the Clusters , Lop'd the Vine , One chop'd off Love . Would , would ! their Lot is Mine . They were so quick at Work , their Master's Voice Soon call'd them off ; Into your Master's Joys . More Blessed Sighed I'le see , ( 'Twill satisfy ) The Glorious , Ever-blessed Trinity . Whom I Ador'd and Lov'd sometime , Him I For ev'r will Love , Admire , and Glorify ; So , so , I'll spend a Blessed Eternity , In everlasting Love , Delights and Joy . Hal -- Le -- Lu -- Jah . Alas ! Poor Scholar , hast thou felt the Stroke Of matchless Death ? Are all thine Heartstrings broke ? Who'l sing thine Iter Empyraeum ? I After thy Blood-suck send this Hue and Cry . Great Wyld is slave ! Slave ! Let this Shriek fly round Till Hills , and Dales , and Rocks , and Shores rebound , Unto Pale Pyrene , and from thence go on Over Parnassus unto Helicon . Raise up the sluggish Sisters , Three times Three , In Lamentations Drop one Elegy . Streams Ever-flowing from each Muses Eye May Spring a Fountain , now their Well is Dry . Tagus and Ganges will astonish'd be , And all th' Antipodes as well as We . Who slew the Muses Darling , of Mankind The Choice Delights ? Search out until you find . Who was't kill'd the Divine ? Who slew the Poet ? Echo . Eat ! What Nimble Chaps , what Cormorant was he Could eat up Wild ? Might not he poyson'd be ? Who poyson'd Wild ? Wakeman with all his Main Could not get Sacred Charles out of his Wain . He pawn'd his Skill , though Justice might not spy , A Plaster to the Fist affects the Eye . 'Twas Death ( that Jesuit ) so greedy grown It chapt up Robert , and let George alone . Rome's Emissary Leeches , so fine bred , Won't touch Posteriors , they chap at th' Head. AND EPITAPH . HEre lies Poor Robin , most enriched one With Nature's Dowry , Graces large Portion . Nature brought Reason , Prudence , Eloquence , And Magnanimity , Munificence , Courage and Constancy , and Matchless Wit . Grace Him adorn'd with Faith , and Hope , and Love , That Saints below he might excel , above With Patience , in none admired more ; Nature and Grace on him laid out their Store . Rome's Plot to strangle Justice in Godfrey , Hell's was ; in Wild , to choke Divinity . Here lies the Poet , here lies Poetry , Here's the Divine , here lies Divinity . Ah Fools ! and inexhausted Spring does Lie , Justice in Charles , in God , Theology . London , Printed in the Year 1679. 