H : 18347 A new years Gift , entitled , A plain Pathway to perfect res Gathered out of sundry Godly Patriarchs , and Prophets , very comfortable for all Christians , and most needful to be had in remembrance . To the Right honourable Lord Rowland Hayward , Lord Mayor of the City of London , your daily Orator Edward Wollay , wishes long life , with in - crease of Faith and Justice . ISraell ought to be commended by reason of Doctrine and Wisdom , show therefore , that they which have it , should not only themselves be wise there - thorough , but should also serve others by teaching and preaching : that is , that Masters & Parents should instruct their family , and the Shepherd his sheep , to save them from the Wolf : what strength is the sheep of to escape the violence or force of the Wolf ? none , says Ecclesiast . but even by his Shepherd : Even so , the Minister & the Preacher , if they be true Preachers & true teachers , surely then does his Flock increase : & when the Wolf Sathan , which ever hath been men Enemy shall come seeking if he may devour man , then by the Doctrine of his Shepherd taught unto him , shall overcome Sathan his Enemy . Here is the Sheep saved by the force of the Shepharde : God grant increase . Eccle. ca.1 John. Let us praise God for all his benefits which we have received : Consent not unto sin . Geve Alms of thy Goods . Be mercy - full after thy power . Be always thankful unto God for his mere - cifull benefits given unto thee : use them well , for thou art but a Steward . God grant that we may so bestow our time in this world , that in the world to come we may be found good Ste - wards and have life everlasting . Amen . Tobi. 4 . O , that men were not so much lovers of themselves . Be not overcome with Covetousness : Be not Boaster's of yourselves : but remember who does give the increase . Be not proud , nor cursed speakers : Be not disobedient to Father & mother . Be not unthanckful nor ungodly . Be not unkind , nor Trusebreakers . Be not false Accusers , nor Riotous Persons . Timo. 4 . Acts . 26 . Be not fierce Despisers of them which are good , or do good : but always lay to thy helping hand , encourage them to go for - wards in their good deeds , and if thou see them step back , go thou forwards in their place : that is the good servant , incou - raging the rest to seek their masters commodity so much as in them does lie , dealing truly with all men , then be you well as - sured to win the crown of everlasting glory , world without end . David . 9 . All is but vanity says the Preacher , why be you then so heddy and high minded , greedy upon voluptuousness more then the lo - vers of God , having a similitude of godliness , but have denied the power thereof , and such you abhor . The servant of the Lord must not strive , but apt to teach , be gentle unto all men , and one that can suffer wrong with meekness : nay we can not do so , why ? because we are men of corrupt minds : but it shall not long prevail , the evil men and deceivers shall wax worse and worse : while they deceive , they shall be deceived them - selves : therefore let every man that calls on the name of Christe fly from iniquity . Great are thy Judgements ( Oh Lord ) there - before men do err that will not be reformed with thy wisdom , God grant we may be reformed by him . Eccle. 12 . Peter . 12 . Judges . 1 . If thou harken unto the voice of the Lord thy God : blessed shalt thou be , but if thou knowest my commandments , says the Lord , and keep them not , cursed shalt thou be , yea cursed shall be the fruit of thy store : though we have sinned say Daniell yet if we call to God in time , he will give us time to re - penned , to know the truth : and that we may come to ourselves a - gain , to avoid the snare of the Devil , which we are held captive of him : and nothing is able to unloose us says Timothy but a sure faith fixed on Jesus Christ , and through his precious Blood shedding , we are all saved from death , and shall come by him to life everlasting . God grant for his son Jesus Christe sake that after this life we may come to life everlasting . Amen . Deut. 28 . Lev. 26 . Barna . 1 . Dani. 9 . Timo. 2 . Gallat . 6 . TO those which writers be , and perfect verses make , Leave of your trifling toys , and , such doings undertake , As shall both profit , and , bring gain to Common wealth , Then shall the writers win the praise and Readers shall gain health , To read that which is good , it will their souls advance , And writers knowledge knit with grace , may vanquish ignorance : You Readers mark this well , and Print this in your heart , And do not as the Partridge does , at every thing to start , At every wind that blows , it runs in wods to lie , And every Child that throws a stone , does make the Partridge fly , Now as I trust you will , plant this within your breast , It shall encourage me to write the way to perfect rest . When I did call to mind , what cures we have in care , This one chief clause I find , most mindful to beware , we know what God hath wild to do , or to forbear : Yet willingly we yield , from safety unto snare , And therefore in this case , my judgement does advance , That knowledge without grace , is worse then Ignorance . we know what thanks we owe , to God for all his gifts , Yet contrary we show to him , ourselves unthrifts , The good from evil we see , in all our daily drifts , Yet to do good we flee , for lack of graces gifts , Then may we use this frase , most nice in remembrance , That knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Now know we Scripture plain , whereas before we did not , Yet are we much more vain , then when the same we read not , we run forth headlong so , as God or man we dread not , Which soon will plant our woe , if God the same forbed not , While we know no right raze , we run under obeisance , Our knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . We know we ought to love , although we be not loved , Again no wrong to move , though wrong to us be moved , Although we be reproved , we ought not to reprove , These godly words approved , does show for our behove , Yet wanting grace , we chase away Gods ordinance , This knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . we know we should forgive , as we would be forgiven , Yet still in ire we live , as though our hearts were reeven , Revengements we do keep , for light occasions given , Our Neighbours grief we seek , both every Morn and Even , The more we spy in space , the less yet our entrance , Our knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance , All falsehood and deceit , we should also abhor , Yet use we more that sleight , than ever we did before Lingering still to view , to hurt our Neighbour soar , So we may them pursue , we care not for no more Repression bears the Mace , and Lucre leads the Dance , Their knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance , we know that we should work the works of righteousness , Yet lie we still and lurk in sloth and idleness , we should eschew the dark , and to the light address , Yet do we as the Turke , all godly light express , In steed of works we place , our lust and dalliance , Thus knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Eke man account must make , as he hath hear vocation , His Talon not to slake , but turn to augmentation , This must we do I say , in pain of our damnation , Then crake no more I pray , of our justificacion , we think to know the pace , dischargeth our allegiance , This knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Better to fit even still , then for to rise and fallen , So is it much less ill , to know nothing at all , Then for to have great skill , and then live worst of all , Fulfilling not Gods will , as he hath wild we shall , Thus ignorance may face , our knowledge no entrance , For knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Which grace that we now lack , for want of calling for , Pray we the Lord to grant , to salve this forsayde soar , That in us he may put , repentance in such store , God grant us out to shut , all our wilful error , All Virtue eke embrace , and Vice away to glance , That knowledge knit with grace , may vanquish ignorance . Loe this much I write plain , to show which way is best , then folH : 18347 A new years Gift , entitled , A plain Pathway to perfect res Gathered out of sundry Godly Patriarchs , and Prophets , very comfortable for all Christians , and most needful to be had in remembrance . To the Right honourable Lord Rowland Hayward , Lord Mayor of the City of London , your daily Orator Edward Wollay , wishes long life , with in - crease of Faith and Justice . ISraell ought to be commended by reason of Doctrine and Wisdom , show therefore , that they which have it , should not only themselves be wise there - thorough , but should also serve others by teaching and preaching : that is , that Masters & Parents should instruct their family , and the Shepherd his sheep , to save them from the Wolf : what strength is the sheep of to escape the violence or force of the Wolf ? none , says Ecclesiast . but even by his Shepherd : Even so , the Minister & the Preacher , if they be true Preachers & true teachers , surely then does his Flock increase : & when the Wolf Sathan , which ever hath been men Enemy shall come seeking if he may devour man , then by the Doctrine of his Shepherd taught unto him , shall overcome Sathan his Enemy . Here is the Sheep saved by the force of the Shepharde : God grant increase . Eccle. ca.1 John. Let us praise God for all his benefits which we have received : Consent not unto sin . Geve Alms of thy Goods . Be mercy - full after thy power . Be always thankful unto God for his mere - cifull benefits given unto thee : use them well , for thou art but a Steward . God grant that we may so bestow our time in this world , that in the world to come we may be found good Ste - wards and have life everlasting . Amen . Tobi. 4 . O , that men were not so much lovers of themselves . Be not overcome with Covetousness : Be not Boaster's of yourselves : but remember who does give the increase . Be not proud , nor cursed speakers : Be not disobedient to Father & mother . Be not unthanckful nor ungodly . Be not unkind , nor Trusebreakers . Be not false Accusers , nor Riotous Persons . Timo. 4 . Acts . 26 . Be not fierce Despisers of them which are good , or do good : but always lay to thy helping hand , encourage them to go for - wards in their good deeds , and if thou see them step back , go thou forwards in their place : that is the good servant , incou - raging the rest to seek their masters commodity so much as in them does lie , dealing truly with all men , then be you well as - sured to win the crown of everlasting glory , world without end . David . 9 . All is but vanity says the Preacher , why be you then so heddy and high minded , greedy upon voluptuousness more then the lo - vers of God , having a similitude of godliness , but have denied the power thereof , and such you abhor . The servant of the Lord must not strive , but apt to teach , be gentle unto all men , and one that can suffer wrong with meekness : nay we can not do so , why ? because we are men of corrupt minds : but it shall not long prevail , the evil men and deceivers shall wax worse and worse : while they deceive , they shall be deceived them - selves : therefore let every man that calls on the name of Christe fly from iniquity . Great are thy Judgements ( Oh Lord ) there - before men do err that will not be reformed with thy wisdom , God grant we may be reformed by him . Eccle. 12 . Peter . 12 . Judges . 1 . If thou harken unto the voice of the Lord thy God : blessed shalt thou be , but if thou knowest my commandments , says the Lord , and keep them not , cursed shalt thou be , yea cursed shall be the fruit of thy store : though we have sinned say Daniell yet if we call to God in time , he will give us time to re - penned , to know the truth : and that we may come to ourselves a - gain , to avoid the snare of the Devil , which we are held captive of him : and nothing is able to unloose us says Timothy but a sure faith fixed on Jesus Christ , and through his precious Blood shedding , we are all saved from death , and shall come by him to life everlasting . God grant for his son Jesus Christe sake that after this life we may come to life everlasting . Amen . Deut. 28 . Lev. 26 . Barna . 1 . Dani. 9 . Timo. 2 . Gallat . 6 . TO those which writers be , and perfect verses make , Leave of your trifling toys , and , such doings undertake , As shall both profit , and , bring gain to Common wealth , Then shall the writers win the praise and Readers shall gain health , To read that which is good , it will their souls advance , And writers knowledge knit with grace , may vanquish ignorance : You Readers mark this well , and Print this in your heart , And do not as the Partridge does , at every thing to start , At every wind that blows , it runs in wods to lie , And every Child that throws a stone , does make the Partridge fly , Now as I trust you will , plant this within your breast , It shall encourage me to write the way to perfect rest . When I did call to mind , what cures we have in care , This one chief clause I find , most mindful to beware , we know what God hath wild to do , or to forbear : Yet willingly we yield , from safety unto snare , And therefore in this case , my judgement does advance , That knowledge without grace , is worse then Ignorance . we know what thanks we owe , to God for all his gifts , Yet contrary we show to him , ourselves unthrifts , The good from evil we see , in all our daily drifts , Yet to do good we flee , for lack of graces gifts , Then may we use this frase , most nice in remembrance , That knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Now know we Scripture plain , whereas before we did not , Yet are we much more vain , then when the same we read not , we run forth headlong so , as God or man we dread not , Which soon will plant our woe , if God the same forbed not , While we know no right raze , we run under obeisance , Our knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . We know we ought to love , although we be not loved , Again no wrong to move , though wrong to us be moved , Although we be reproved , we ought not to reprove , These godly words approved , does show for our behove , Yet wanting grace , we chase away Gods ordinance , This knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . we know we should forgive , as we would be forgiven , Yet still in ire we live , as though our hearts were reeven , Revengements we do keep , for light occasions given , Our Neighbours grief we seek , both every Morn and Even , The more we spy in space , the less yet our entrance , Our knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance , All falsehood and deceit , we should also abhor , Yet use we more that sleight , than ever we did before Lingering still to view , to hurt our Neighbour soar , So we may them pursue , we care not for no more Repression bears the Mace , and Lucre leads the Dance , Their knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance , we know that we should work the works of righteousness , Yet lie we still and lurk in sloth and idleness , we should eschew the dark , and to the light address , Yet do we as the Turke , all godly light express , In steed of works we place , our lust and dalliance , Thus knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Eke man account must make , as he hath hear vocation , His Talon not to slake , but turn to augmentation , This must we do I say , in pain of our damnation , Then crake no more I pray , of our justificacion , we think to know the pace , dischargeth our allegiance , This knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Better to fit even still , then for to rise and fallen , So is it much less ill , to know nothing at all , Then for to have great skill , and then live worst of all , Fulfilling not Gods will , as he hath wild we shall , Thus ignorance may face , our knowledge no entrance , For knowledge without grace , is worse then ignorance . Which grace that we now lack , for want of calling for , Pray we the Lord to grant , to salve this forsayde soar , That in us he may put , repentance in such store , God grant us out to shut , all our wilful error , All Virtue eke embrace , and Vice away to glance , That knowledge knit with grace , may vanquish ignorance . Loe this much I write plain , to show which way is best , then follow this and do not feign , then shall you joy and rest , With God which sits above , with Angels round about , knock and I will open , ( says he ) of this have thou no doubt , Great compfort sure is this , then let us call and pray , for our good Queen and her Counsel , to save them from decay . FINIS . ( quod ) Edward Wollay . ' Imprinted at London , by William How , for Richard Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop joining to the Southwest door of Paules Church . 1571 . owe this and do not feign , then shall you joy and rest , With God which sits above , with Angels round about , knock and I will open , ( says he ) of this have thou no doubt , Great compfort sure is this , then let us call and pray , for our good Queen and her Counsel , to save them from decay . FINIS . ( quod ) Edward Wollay . ' Imprinted at London , by William How , for Richard Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop joining to the Southwest door of Paules Church . 1571. 