H : 613179 LILLY Lash't with his own ROD . OR , AND EPIGRAM On the Quaint Skill of that Arch Temporizing ASTROLOGER MR. WILLIAM LILLY . Collected out of his ALMANACKS , from 1647 , to this present year , 1660. Found forth A Trumpet , that the world may hear , The Great skill of this Fam'd Astrologer . He that foresees all things in Church and State , By help oth' Crystal , and his Book of Fate . He that makes use of Direful Negromancie , To terrify the tim'rous yielding Fancy , He that does use whole Nations to Trepan , With the bore Names of Angel-Guardian , The Sybil's Oracles , and Theurgy , With's Little knowledge had of Ptolome ! All sorts attend ! while briefly I relate , The Dirty juggling of this Son of Fate . The Cunning used , by this Albumazer , That of your common Cheats surpasses far . They Contra-Legem , th' Country quack about , And deal their dirty-skill , at small rate out , To Gull the Sillyer sort ; this Artisan , Proclaims himself a fixed conjuring man ; And Pride in him so monstrously prevails , To be the States Bellwether he Assails . And then so furiously to work he goes , He forfeits all the honest Art he knows , For the base Lucre of two hundred pound A Year . * ( But changes still , as th' wheel turns round ) And that all Persons to him may repair Two Dials Point us forth this Blazing Star : That if the Lord of Gypsies men would see , In th' Strand there dwells , the Maypole , Stocks , and He ! Take some Specimina of his rare skill ; ( And chide me for't , if I report him ill ) In forty seaven , the Scots most Prudent were ( Or he a filthy liar did appear ! ) Nay he Confided in their Nobles ; And Their Ministry Procla'm the worth oth' Land. And in his forty eight years fine Epistle , In their behalf , did confidently Bristle ! Pronouncing them most honest ; And men Guided By a Good Covenant . [ From which they backslided . ] They did return , delivered our Towns , [ For which they Juggled from us , many pounds ! ] But yet in forty nine , he Rails aloud Calling them Pilfering Scots ; Peevish and Proud ; Traitors , and Enemies ; A Graceless crew , Of Villains ; worse then any Turk or Jew . And in his Merlin fifty one they are Egyptian Scots ; Pseud-Presbyters that dare Do any thlng , against this Power , for which ( Deservedly ) they were Rid of their Itch. And is there any Delian Vizard can , In Temporising , match this cunning-man ? At this Rate with the Parliament he deals , Telling the world , that they our Breaches heal ; That they're by God appointed for to scourge The Norman Raze : and all that else dare urge But ought against them . Tells them their power shall stand , Maugre the Acts of all by Sea and Land , But when ( in Fifty-two ) he plainly saw , Unto what side , the Army , gan to draw , Oh! now ( says he ) Great Parliament your Power Is but short-liv'd ; And I expect ( each hour ) Your timely Dissolution ! In Fifty-three , Basely abuses them ; Threatening , that he ( With others ) each Member thereof will call to Account ; And so , ( in wrath ) Divines their woe . In Fifty-four he them unthankful styles : Most terrible ! [ Forgetting's former Wiles . ] A Private ended crew ; Intemperate ; Not fitting for to sway so great a State . They'r Drowsy , Slothful , But yet are become , As cunning Tailors ! [ His PROFESSION ! ] * And thus you see , A Parliaments no more With this Cretensis , then each Country Boar . Further ! Let's note the Signal flattery He Publish'd in his senseless Monarchy ; Swearing no King in England , more shall Reign . Yet when th' Protector gan to Rule ; Amain He Pipes ---- That Happy Monarchy's so good A Government ; ( If truly understood ) None better was : Vowing't a Gallant thing To England , if th' Protector were a King . I might here note this Quacks abusing Spain ; And's currying favour with that Prince again . Of's Ambedextrous dealing with the State Of Sweden , ( Denmark , ) at his flattering Rate . How with the wheel of time , he turns about And powers his spurioas , poisonous Oracles out , Unto Astrologies , and Artists shame ! But Quaks are Quaks , though pras'd ith' mouth of Fame . Hence , Baser Gypses ! here is one that can Out do you all , in flattering any man , Hence , with the dull stock of your footstool Cares ; Heer's one out-cheats-ye , by the height oth' Stars Hence with your common small Beer single Fee , Heer's one pulls Kingdoms for the Golden Fleece . Be gone you Rosy-crucians , that pretend , All things to know ; Heer's one your skill can Mend . Fly , Fly , you Fairy Elves , that use to Pry Into the Closets of Men's secrecy , Your skill is stale ; Heer's one that may compare With Lucifer's great self , [ both head and hair ! ] Avant Great Faustus , Bacon , Lamb ; and Let Th' Imposters Baize on Lillies head be set That Laurel ( surely ) will befit him best , Because he bears A MERLIN for his Crest . Let all the Muses join , LILLY , to sing Of Parasites the only lawful King . For hee's most fit to be a Prince of slaves , That in himself contains ten thousand KNAVES . * Lily was a Tailor before he pretended Astro - logie and Appren - tice to Pawlin in the Strand . Printed in the year , 1660. H : 613179 LILLY Lash't with his own ROD . OR , AND EPIGRAM On the Quaint Skill of that Arch Temporizing ASTROLOGER MR. WILLIAM LILLY . Collected out of his ALMANACKS , from 1647 , to this present year , 1660. Found forth A Trumpet , that the world may hear , The Great skill of this Fam'd Astrologer . He that foresees all things in Church and State , By help oth' Crystal , and his Book of Fate . He that makes use of Direful Negromancie , To terrify the tim'rous yielding Fancy , He that does use whole Nations to Trepan , With the bore Names of Angel-Guardian , The Sybil's Oracles , and Theurgy , With's Little knowledge had of Ptolome ! All sorts attend ! while briefly I relate , The Dirty juggling of this Son of Fate . The Cunning used , by this Albumazer , That of your common Cheats surpasses far . They Contra-Legem , th' Country quack about , And deal their dirty-skill , at small rate out , To Gull the Sillyer sort ; this Artisan , Proclaims himself a fixed conjuring man ; And Pride in him so monstrously prevails , To be the States Bellwether he Assails . And then so furiously to work he goes , He forfeits all the honest Art he knows , For the base Lucre of two hundred pound A Year . * ( But changes still , as th' wheel turns round ) And that all Persons to him may repair Two Dials Point us forth this Blazing Star : That if the Lord of Gypsies men would see , In th' Strand there dwells , the Maypole , Stocks , and He ! Take some Specimina of his rare skill ; ( And chide me for't , if I report him ill ) In forty seaven , the Scots most Prudent were ( Or he a filthy liar did appear ! ) Nay he Confided in their Nobles ; And Their Ministry Procla'm the worth oth' Land. And in his forty eight years fine Epistle , In their behalf , did confidently Bristle ! Pronouncing them most honest ; And men Guided By a Good Covenant . [ From which they backslided . ] They did return , delivered our Towns , [ For which they Juggled from us , many pounds ! ] But yet in forty nine , he Rails aloud Calling them Pilfering Scots ; Peevish and Proud ; Traitors , and Enemies ; A Graceless crew , Of Villains ; worse then any Turk or Jew . And in his Merlin fifty one they are Egyptian Scots ; Pseud-Presbyters that dare Do any thlng , against this Power , for which ( Deservedly ) they were Rid of their Itch. And is there any Delian Vizard can , In Temporising , match this cunning-man ? At this Rate with the Parliament he deals , Telling the world , that they our Breaches heal ; That they're by God appointed for to scourge The Norman Raze : and all that else dare urge But ought against them . Tells them their power shall stand , Maugre the Acts of all by Sea and Land , But when ( in Fifty-two ) he plainly saw , Unto what side , the Army , gan to draw , Oh! now ( says he ) Great Parliament your Power Is but short-liv'd ; And I expect ( each hour ) Your timely Dissolution ! In Fifty-three , Basely abuses them ; Threatening , that he ( With others ) each Member thereof will call to Account ; And so , ( in wrath ) Divines their woe . In Fifty-four he them unthankful styles : Most terrible ! [ Forgetting's former Wiles . ] A Private ended crew ; Intemperate ; Not fitting for to sway so great a State . They'r Drowsy , Slothful , But yet are become , As cunning Tailors ! [ His PROFESSION ! ] * And thus you see , A Parliaments no more With this Cretensis , then each Country Boar . Further ! Let's note the Signal flattery He Publish'd in his senseless Monarchy ; Swearing no King in England , more shall Reign . Yet when th' Protector gan to Rule ; Amain He Pipes ---- That Happy Monarchy's so good A Government ; ( If truly understood ) None better was : Vowing't a Gallant thing To England , if th' Protector were a King . I might here note this Quacks abusing Spain ; And's currying favour with that Prince again . Of's Ambedextrous dealing with the State Of Sweden , ( Denmark , ) at his flattering Rate . How with the wheel of time , he turns about And powers his spurioas , poisonous Oracles out , Unto Astrologies , and Artists shame ! But Quaks are Quaks , though pras'd ith' mouth of Fame . Hence , Baser Gypses ! here is one that can Out do you all , in flattering any man , Hence , with the dull stock of your footstool Cares ; Heer's one out-cheats-ye , by the height oth' Stars Hence with your common small Beer single Fee , Heer's one pulls Kingdoms for the Golden Fleece . Be gone you Rosy-crucians , that pretend , All things to know ; Heer's one your skill can Mend . Fly , Fly , you Fairy Elves , that use to Pry Into the Closets of Men's secrecy , Your skill is stale ; Heer's one that may compare With Lucifer's great self , [ both head and hair ! ] Avant Great Faustus , Bacon , Lamb ; and Let Th' Imposters Baize on Lillies head be set That Laurel ( surely ) will befit him best , Because he bears A MERLIN for his Crest . Let all the Muses join , LILLY , to sing Of Parasites the only lawful King . For hee's most fit to be a Prince of slaves , That in himself contains ten thousand KNAVES . * Lily was a Tailor before he pretended Astro - logie and Appren - tice to Pawlin in the Strand . Printed in the year , 1660. H : 613179 LILLY Lash't with his own ROD . OR , AND EPIGRAM On the Quaint Skill of that Arch Temporizing ASTROLOGER MR. WILLIAM LILLY . Collected out of his ALMANACKS , from 1647 , to this present year , 1660. Found forth A Trumpet , that the world may hear , The Great skill of this Fam'd Astrologer . He that foresees all things in Church and State , By help oth' Crystal , and his Book of Fate . He that makes use of Direful Negromancie , To terrify the tim'rous yielding Fancy , He that does use whole Nations to Trepan , With the bore Names of Angel-Guardian , The Sybil's Oracles , and Theurgy , With's Little knowledge had of Ptolome ! All sorts attend ! while briefly I relate , The Dirty juggling of this Son of Fate . The Cunning used , by this Albumazer , That of your common Cheats surpasses far . They Contra-Legem , th' Country quack about , And deal their dirty-skill , at small rate out , To Gull the Sillyer sort ; this Artisan , Proclaims himself a fixed conjuring man ; And Pride in him so monstrously prevails , To be the States Bellwether he Assails . And then so furiously to work he goes , He forfeits all the honest Art he knows , For the base Lucre of two hundred pound A Year . * ( But changes still , as th' wheel turns round ) And that all Persons to him may repair Two Dials Point us forth this Blazing Star : That if the Lord of Gypsies men would see , In th' Strand there dwells , the Maypole , Stocks , and He ! Take some Specimina of his rare skill ; ( And chide me for't , if I report him ill ) In forty seaven , the Scots most Prudent were ( Or he a filthy liar did appear ! ) Nay he Confided in their Nobles ; And Their Ministry Procla'm the worth oth' Land. And in his forty eight years fine Epistle , In their behalf , did confidently Bristle ! Pronouncing them most honest ; And men Guided By a Good Covenant . [ From which they backslided . ] They did return , delivered our Towns , [ For which they Juggled from us , many pounds ! ] But yet in forty nine , he Rails aloud Calling them Pilfering Scots ; Peevish and Proud ; Traitors , and Enemies ; A Graceless crew , Of Villains ; worse then any Turk or Jew . And in his Merlin fifty one they are Egyptian Scots ; Pseud-Presbyters that dare Do any thlng , against this Power , for which ( Deservedly ) they were Rid of their Itch. And is there any Delian Vizard can , In Temporising , match this cunning-man ? At this Rate with the Parliament he deals , Telling the world , that they our Breaches heal ; That they're by God appointed for to scourge The Norman Raze : and all that else dare urge But ought against them . Tells them their power shall stand , Maugre the Acts of all by Sea and Land , But when ( in Fifty-two ) he plainly saw , Unto what side , the Army , gan to draw , Oh! now ( says he ) Great Parliament your Power Is but short-liv'd ; And I expect ( each hour ) Your timely Dissolution ! In Fifty-three , Basely abuses them ; Threatening , that he ( With others ) each Member thereof will call to Account ; And so , ( in wrath ) Divines their woe . In Fifty-four he them unthankful styles : Most terrible ! [ Forgetting's former Wiles . ] A Private ended crew ; Intemperate ; Not fitting for to sway so great a State . They'r Drowsy , Slothful , But yet are become , As cunning Tailors ! [ His PROFESSION ! ] * And thus you see , A Parliaments no more With this Cretensis , then each Country Boar . Further ! Let's note the Signal flattery He Publish'd in his senseless Monarchy ; Swearing no King in England , more shall Reign . Yet when th' Protector gan to Rule ; Amain He Pipes ---- That Happy Monarchy's so good A Government ; ( If truly understood ) None better was : Vowing't a Gallant thing To England , if th' Protector were a King . I might here note this Quacks abusing Spain ; And's currying favour with that Prince again . Of's Ambedextrous dealing with the State Of Sweden , ( Denmark , ) at his flattering Rate . How with the wheel of time , he turns about And powers his spurioas , poisonous Oracles out , Unto Astrologies , and Artists shame ! But Quaks are Quaks , though pras'd ith' mouth of Fame . Hence , Baser Gypses ! here is one that can Out do you all , in flattering any man , Hence , with the dull stock of your footstool Cares ; Heer's one out-cheats-ye , by the height oth' Stars Hence with your common small Beer single Fee , Heer's one pulls Kingdoms for the Golden Fleece . Be gone you Rosy-crucians , that pretend , All things to know ; Heer's one your skill can Mend . Fly , Fly , you Fairy Elves , that use to Pry Into the Closets of Men's secrecy , Your skill is stale ; Heer's one that may compare With Lucifer's great self , [ both head and hair ! ] Avant Great Faustus , Bacon , Lamb ; and Let Th' Imposters Baize on Lillies head be set That Laurel ( surely ) will befit him best , Because he bears A MERLIN for his Crest . Let all the Muses join , LILLY , to sing Of Parasites the only lawful King . For hee's most fit to be a Prince of slaves , That in himself contains ten thousand KNAVES . * Lily was a Tailor before he pretended Astro - logie and Appren - tice to Pawlin in the Strand . Printed in the year , 1660. H : 613179 LILLY Lash't with his own ROD . OR , AND EPIGRAM On the Quaint Skill of that Arch Temporizing ASTROLOGER MR. WILLIAM LILLY . Collected out of his ALMANACKS , from 1647 , to this present year , 1660. Found forth A Trumpet , that the world may hear , The Great skill of this Fam'd Astrologer . He that foresees all things in Church and State , By help oth' Crystal , and his Book of Fate . He that makes use of Direful Negromancie , To terrify the tim'rous yielding Fancy , He that does use whole Nations to Trepan , With the bore Names of Angel-Guardian , The Sybil's Oracles , and Theurgy , With's Little knowledge had of Ptolome ! All sorts attend ! while briefly I relate , The Dirty juggling of this Son of Fate . The Cunning used , by this Albumazer , That of your common Cheats surpasses far . They Contra-Legem , th' Country quack about , And deal their dirty-skill , at small rate out , To Gull the Sillyer sort ; this Artisan , Proclaims himself a fixed conjuring man ; And Pride in him so monstrously prevails , To be the States Bellwether he Assails . And then so furiously to work he goes , He forfeits all the honest Art he knows , For the base Lucre of two hundred pound A Year . * ( But changes still , as th' wheel turns round ) And that all Persons to him may repair Two Dials Point us forth this Blazing Star : That if the Lord of Gypsies men would see , In th' Strand there dwells , the Maypole , Stocks , and He ! Take some Specimina of his rare skill ; ( And chide me for't , if I report him ill ) In forty seaven , the Scots most Prudent were ( Or he a filthy liar did appear ! ) Nay he Confided in their Nobles ; And Their Ministry Procla'm the worth oth' Land. And in his forty eight years fine Epistle , In their behalf , did confidently Bristle ! Pronouncing them most honest ; And men Guided By a Good Covenant . [ From which they backslided . ] They did return , delivered our Towns , [ For which they Juggled from us , many pounds ! ] But yet in forty nine , he Rails aloud Calling them Pilfering Scots ; Peevish and Proud ; Traitors , and Enemies ; A Graceless crew , Of Villains ; worse then any Turk or Jew . And in his Merlin fifty one they are Egyptian Scots ; Pseud-Presbyters that dare Do any thlng , against this Power , for which ( Deservedly ) they were Rid of their Itch. And is there any Delian Vizard can , In Temporising , match this cunning-man ? At this Rate with the Parliament he deals , Telling the world , that they our Breaches heal ; That they're by God appointed for to scourge The Norman Raze : and all that else dare urge But ought against them . Tells them their power shall stand , Maugre the Acts of all by Sea and Land , But when ( in Fifty-two ) he plainly saw , Unto what side , the Army , gan to draw , Oh! now ( says he ) Great Parliament your Power Is but short-liv'd ; And I expect ( each hour ) Your timely Dissolution ! In Fifty-three , Basely abuses them ; Threatening , that he ( With others ) each Member thereof will call to Account ; And so , ( in wrath ) Divines their woe . In Fifty-four he them unthankful styles : Most terrible ! [ Forgetting's former Wiles . ] A Private ended crew ; Intemperate ; Not fitting for to sway so great a State . They'r Drowsy , Slothful , But yet are become , As cunning Tailors ! [ His PROFESSION ! ] * And thus you see , A Parliaments no more With this Cretensis , then each Country Boar . Further ! Let's note the Signal flattery He Publish'd in his senseless Monarchy ; Swearing no King in England , more shall Reign . Yet when th' Protector gan to Rule ; Amain He Pipes ---- That Happy Monarchy's so good A Government ; ( If truly understood ) None better was : Vowing't a Gallant thing To England , if th' Protector were a King . I might here note this Quacks abusing Spain ; And's currying favour with that Prince again . Of's Ambedextrous dealing with the State Of Sweden , ( Denmark , ) at his flattering Rate . How with the wheel of time , he turns about And powers his spurioas , poisonous Oracles out , Unto Astrologies , and Artists shame ! But Quaks are Quaks , though pras'd ith' mouth of Fame . Hence , Baser Gypses ! here is one that can Out do you all , in flattering any man , Hence , with the dull stock of your footstool Cares ; Heer's one out-cheats-ye , by the height oth' Stars Hence with your common small Beer single Fee , Heer's one pulls Kingdoms for the Golden Fleece . Be gone you Rosy-crucians , that pretend , All things to know ; Heer's one your skill can Mend . Fly , Fly , you Fairy Elves , that use to Pry Into the Closets of Men's secrecy , Your skill is stale ; Heer's one that may compare With Lucifer's great self , [ both head and hair ! ] Avant Great Faustus , Bacon , Lamb ; and Let Th' Imposters Baize on Lillies head be set That Laurel ( surely ) will befit him best , Because he bears A MERLIN for his Crest . Let all the Muses join , LILLY , to sing Of Parasites the only lawful King . For hee's most fit to be a Prince of slaves , That in himself contains ten thousand KNAVES . * Lily was a Tailor before he pretended Astro - logie and Appren - tice to Pawlin in the Strand . Printed in the year , 1660. 