H : 489451 Saint GEORGE , and the DRAGON , ANGLICE , MERCURIUS POETICUS : To the tune of , The Old Souldjour of the Queen's , etc NEws , News : --- Here's the Occurrences : and a new Mercurius : A Dialogue betwixt Haslerigg the Baffled , a [ n ] worser Arthur the Furious : With Iretons readings upon Legitimate and Spurious , Proving that a Saint may be the Son of a Whore ; for the satisfaction of the Curious From a Rump insatiate as the Sea , Libera nos Domine . Here's the true reason of the Cities infatuation : Ireton ha's made it Drunk with the Cup of Abomination : That is , ----- the Cup of the Whore , after the Geneva Interpretation : Which , with the Juice of Titchbourn's Grapes , must needs , cause Intoxication . From a Rump , etc Here's the Whipper whipped - by a Friend to George , that whipp'd Jack that whipp'd the Breech , That whipp'd the Nation , as long as it could stand over i --- After which It was it self Re-jerk'd , by the sage Author of this Speech : Methinks a Rump should go as well with a Scotch spur ; as with a Switch . From a Rump , etc This Rump hath many a Rotten and unruly Member : Give the General the Oath , cries one ; ----- ( but his Conscience being a little tender , I'll Abjure you , with a Horsepox , quoth George , ----- and make you remember The 'Leaventh of February , longer than the Fifth of November . From a Rump , etc With that --- Monk leaves ( in a Rump assembled ) --- the Three Estates . But o , ----- how the Citizens hugg'd him for breaking down their Gates , For Tearing up their Pots , and Chains , and for Clapping up their Mates , ( When they saw , that he brought them Plasters for their broken Pates . ) From a Rump , etc In truth , this Rufle put the Town in great disorder ; Some Knaves ( in Office ) smil'd , --- expecting 'twould go further ; But at the last ---- my Life on't , George is no Rumper , -- said the Recorder : For there never was either Honest man , or Monk of that Order . From a Rump , etc And so it prov'd , for Gentlemen , says the General , I'll make you amends : Our Greeting was a little untoward , but we'll part Friends , A little time shall show you which way my Design tends . And that , beside the good of Church and State , I have no other ends . From a Rump , etc His Excellence had no sooner pass'd this Declaration and Promise , But in steps Secretary Scot , ---- the Rump's man Thomas , With Luke , their lame Evangelist ----- ( the Devil keep 'um from us , ) To show Monk what precious Members of Church and State the Bumm ha's . From a Rump , etc And now comes the Supplication of the Members under the Rod , Nay , My Lord , ( cries the Brewers Clerk ) -- good my Lord , -- for the love of God , Consider your self , us ---- and this poor Nation , and that Tyrant Abroad ; Don't leave us , ---- but George gave him a Shrug , instead of a Nod . From a Rump , etc This mortal Silence was followed with a most hideous Noise Of Free-Parliament Bells' , and Rump confounding Boys : Crying Geld the Rogues , Sing their Tails , --- when with a low Voice , Fire and Sword , by this Light , cries Tom , let's look to our Toys . From a Rump , etc Never were wretched Members in so sad a Pligh Some were Bryl'd , ----- some Toasted , ----- others Burned outright . Nay , against Rumps , so Pittylesse was their Rage , and Spite , That not a Citizen would kiss his Wife that Night . From a Rump , etc By this time , Death , and Hell appear'd in the ghastly Looks Of Scot , and Robinson ; ( those Legislative Rooks ) And it must needs put the Rump most damnably off the Hooks , To see , that when God has sent meat , the Devil should send Cooks . From a Rump , etc But Providence , their old friend , brought these Saints off , at Last , And through the Pikes , and the Flames , undismembered they passed , Although ( God wot ) with many strugglings , and much Hast. ( For ---- Members , ----- or no Members , was but a measuring Cast ) From a Rump , etc Being come to Whitehall ; ----- there's the dismal moan : Let Monk be damn'd , cries Arthur ; in a Terrible tone : That Traitor : ----- and those Cuckoldly Rogues that set him on . ( But tho' the Knight Spits Blood , 'tis observ'd that he Draws none ) From a Rump , etc The Plague Bawl you , cries Harry Martin , you have brought us to this condition You must be canting , and be Pox'd , ----- with your Barebones Petition , And take in that Bull-headed , splayfooted Member of the Circumcision , That Bacon-fac'd Jew , Corbe that son of Perdition . From a Rump , etc Then in steps Driv'ling Mounson , to take up the Squabble : That Lord ; which first taught the use of the Wooden Dagger , and Ladle , He , ---- that out does Jack Pudding , at a Custard , or a Caudle : And were the Best Fool in Europe , but that he wants a Bauble . From a Rump , etc More was said , to little Purpose : the next news , is ----- a Declaration From the Rump ; for a Free State , according to the Covenant of the Nation , And a Free-Parliament , under Oath , and Qualification , Where none shall be Elect , but Members of Reprobation . From a Rump , etc Here's the Tail Firk't ; a Piece acted lately with great applause , With a Plea for the Prerogative Breech , and the Good Old Cause : Proving , that Rumps , and Members are ancienter than Laws : And that a Bumme Divided , is never the worse for the Flaws . From a Rump , etc But all things have their Perjod , and Fate , And Act of Parliament dissolves a Rump of State : Members grow weak ; and Tails themselves run out of Date : And yet thou shalt not die ; ( Dear Breech ) thy Fame I'll celebrate . From a Rump , etc Here lies a Pack of Saints , that did their Souls , and Country Fell For Dirt ; The Devil was their good Lord ; him they serv'd well ; By his Advice , they Stood , and Acted : and by his President they Fell , ( Like Lucifer ) making but one step betwixt Heaven , and Hell . From a Rump insatiate as the Sea. Liberasti nos Domine . LONDON : Printed for Thomas Scott one of the Kings Tryers , and are to be sold by William Leadsome . H : 489451 Saint GEORGE , and the DRAGON , ANGLICE , MERCURIUS POETICUS : To the tune of , The Old Souldjour of the Queen's , etc NEws , News : --- Here's the Occurrences : and a new Mercurius : A Dialogue betwixt Haslerigg the Baffled , a [ n ] worser Arthur the Furious : With Iretons readings upon Legitimate and Spurious , Proving that a Saint may be the Son of a Whore ; for the satisfaction of the Curious From a Rump insatiate as the Sea , Libera nos Domine . Here's the true reason of the Cities infatuation : Ireton ha's made it Drunk with the Cup of Abomination : That is , ----- the Cup of the Whore , after the Geneva Interpretation : Which , with the Juice of Titchbourn's Grapes , must needs , cause Intoxication . From a Rump , etc Here's the Whipper whipped - by a Friend to George , that whipp'd Jack that whipp'd the Breech , That whipp'd the Nation , as long as it could stand over i --- After which It was it self Re-jerk'd , by the sage Author of this Speech : Methinks a Rump should go as well with a Scotch spur ; as with a Switch . From a Rump , etc This Rump hath many a Rotten and unruly Member : Give the General the Oath , cries one ; ----- ( but his Conscience being a little tender , I'll Abjure you , with a Horsepox , quoth George , ----- and make you remember The 'Leaventh of February , longer than the Fifth of November . From a Rump , etc With that --- Monk leaves ( in a Rump assembled ) --- the Three Estates . But o , ----- how the Citizens hugg'd him for breaking down their Gates , For Tearing up their Pots , and Chains , and for Clapping up their Mates , ( When they saw , that he brought them Plasters for their broken Pates . ) From a Rump , etc In truth , this Rufle put the Town in great disorder ; Some Knaves ( in Office ) smil'd , --- expecting 'twould go further ; But at the last ---- my Life on't , George is no Rumper , -- said the Recorder : For there never was either Honest man , or Monk of that Order . From a Rump , etc And so it prov'd , for Gentlemen , says the General , I'll make you amends : Our Greeting was a little untoward , but we'll part Friends , A little time shall show you which way my Design tends . And that , beside the good of Church and State , I have no other ends . From a Rump , etc His Excellence had no sooner pass'd this Declaration and Promise , But in steps Secretary Scot , ---- the Rump's man Thomas , With Luke , their lame Evangelist ----- ( the Devil keep 'um from us , ) To show Monk what precious Members of Church and State the Bumm ha's . From a Rump , etc And now comes the Supplication of the Members under the Rod , Nay , My Lord , ( cries the Brewers Clerk ) -- good my Lord , -- for the love of God , Consider your self , us ---- and this poor Nation , and that Tyrant Abroad ; Don't leave us , ---- but George gave him a Shrug , instead of a Nod . From a Rump , etc This mortal Silence was followed with a most hideous Noise Of Free-Parliament Bells' , and Rump confounding Boys : Crying Geld the Rogues , Sing their Tails , --- when with a low Voice , Fire and Sword , by this Light , cries Tom , let's look to our Toys . From a Rump , etc Never were wretched Members in so sad a Pligh Some were Bryl'd , ----- some Toasted , ----- others Burned outright . Nay , against Rumps , so Pittylesse was their Rage , and Spite , That not a Citizen would kiss his Wife that Night . From a Rump , etc By this time , Death , and Hell appear'd in the ghastly Looks Of Scot , and Robinson ; ( those Legislative Rooks ) And it must needs put the Rump most damnably off the Hooks , To see , that when God has sent meat , the Devil should send Cooks . From a Rump , etc But Providence , their old friend , brought these Saints off , at Last , And through the Pikes , and the Flames , undismembered they passed , Although ( God wot ) with many strugglings , and much Hast. ( For ---- Members , ----- or no Members , was but a measuring Cast ) From a Rump , etc Being come to Whitehall ; ----- there's the dismal moan : Let Monk be damn'd , cries Arthur ; in a Terrible tone : That Traitor : ----- and those Cuckoldly Rogues that set him on . ( But tho' the Knight Spits Blood , 'tis observ'd that he Draws none ) From a Rump , etc The Plague Bawl you , cries Harry Martin , you have brought us to this condition You must be canting , and be Pox'd , ----- with your Barebones Petition , And take in that Bull-headed , splayfooted Member of the Circumcision , That Bacon-fac'd Jew , Corbe that son of Perdition . From a Rump , etc Then in steps Driv'ling Mounson , to take up the Squabble : That Lord ; which first taught the use of the Wooden Dagger , and Ladle , He , ---- that out does Jack Pudding , at a Custard , or a Caudle : And were the Best Fool in Europe , but that he wants a Bauble . From a Rump , etc More was said , to little Purpose : the next news , is ----- a Declaration From the Rump ; for a Free State , according to the Covenant of the Nation , And a Free-Parliament , under Oath , and Qualification , Where none shall be Elect , but Members of Reprobation . From a Rump , etc Here's the Tail Firk't ; a Piece acted lately with great applause , With a Plea for the Prerogative Breech , and the Good Old Cause : Proving , that Rumps , and Members are ancienter than Laws : And that a Bumme Divided , is never the worse for the Flaws . From a Rump , etc But all things have their Perjod , and Fate , And Act of Parliament dissolves a Rump of State : Members grow weak ; and Tails themselves run out of Date : And yet thou shalt not die ; ( Dear Breech ) thy Fame I'll celebrate . From a Rump , etc Here lies a Pack of Saints , that did their Souls , and Country Fell For Dirt ; The Devil was their good Lord ; him they serv'd well ; By his Advice , they Stood , and Acted : and by his President they Fell , ( Like Lucifer ) making but one step betwixt Heaven , and Hell . From a Rump insatiate as the Sea. Liberasti nos Domine . LONDON : Printed for Thomas Scott one of the Kings Tryers , and are to be sold by William Leadsome . 