H : 299798-47 And Excellent New Ballad , To the Tune of How Unhappy is Phillis in Love . [ 1 ] LEt Oliver now be forgotten , His Policy's quite out of Doors ; Let Bradshaw and Hewson lie rotten , Like Sons of Fanatical Whores : For Tony's grown a Patrician , By Voting damn'd Sedition , For many years , Fam'd Politician , The Mouth of all Presbyter Peers . [ 2 ] Old Tony a Turncoat at Worster , Yet swore he'd maintain the King's Right ; But Tony did Swagger and Bluster , Yet never drew Sword on his side . For Tony is like and old Stallion , He has still the Pox of Rebellion , And never was found ; Like the Chameleon , Still changing his Shape and his Ground . [ 3 ] Old Rowly's return'd ( Heav'ns bless him , ) From Exile and Danger set free ; Old Tony made haste to Address him , And swore none more Loyal than He : The King , ( who knew him a Traitor , ) And saw him squint like a Satyr ; Yet through his Grace , Pardon'd the Matter , And gave him since the Purse and the Mace . [ 4 ] And now little Chancellor Tony , With Honour had feather'd his Wing , And carefully pick'd up the Money , But never a Groat for the King : But Tony's Luck was confounded ; The D. who smoked him a Round-head ; From Head to Heel Tony was sounded , And Y ------ soon put a Spoke in his Wheel . [ 5 ] But now little Tony in Passion , Like Boy that had nettl'd his Breech , Maliciously took and occasion , To make a most delicate Speech ; He told the King like a Croney ; If e're he hop'd to have Money , He must be Rul'd : O fine Tony ! Was ever Potent Monarch so School'd ? [ 6 ] The King issues out a Poclamation , By Learned and Loyal Advice ; But Tony possesses the Nation The Council will never be wise : For Tony is madder and madder , And M ------ blows like a Bladder , And L ------ too , Who grows gladder , That They Great York are like to subdue . [ 7 ] But Destiny shortly will cross it , For Tony's grown Gouty and Sick , In spite of his Spigot and Faucet , The Statesman must go to Old Neck : For Tony rails at the Papist , Yet He himself is and Atheist ; Though so precise , Foolish and Apish , Like Holy Quack or Priest in Disguise . [ 8 ] But now let this Rump of the Law-see , A Maxim as Learned in part ; Who e're with his Prince is too saucy , 'Tis fear'd he's a Traitor in's Hear Then Tony cease to be witty , By buzzing Treason i' th' City ; And love the King , So ends my Dity ; Or else let him die like a Dog in a string . Printed for Benjamin Harris at the Stationers Arms at the Royal Exchange , and are to be sold by Langley Curtis in Goatham Court on Ludgate-hill , 1681 : H : 299798-47 And Excellent New Ballad , To the Tune of How Unhappy is Phillis in Love . [ 1 ] LEt Oliver now be forgotten , His Policy's quite out of Doors ; Let Bradshaw and Hewson lie rotten , Like Sons of Fanatical Whores : For Tony's grown a Patrician , By Voting damn'd Sedition , For many years , Fam'd Politician , The Mouth of all Presbyter Peers . [ 2 ] Old Tony a Turncoat at Worster , Yet swore he'd maintain the King's Right ; But Tony did Swagger and Bluster , Yet never drew Sword on his side . For Tony is like and old Stallion , He has still the Pox of Rebellion , And never was found ; Like the Chameleon , Still changing his Shape and his Ground . [ 3 ] Old Rowly's return'd ( Heav'ns bless him , ) From Exile and Danger set free ; Old Tony made haste to Address him , And swore none more Loyal than He : The King , ( who knew him a Traitor , ) And saw him squint like a Satyr ; Yet through his Grace , Pardon'd the Matter , And gave him since the Purse and the Mace . [ 4 ] And now little Chancellor Tony , With Honour had feather'd his Wing , And carefully pick'd up the Money , But never a Groat for the King : But Tony's Luck was confounded ; The D. who smoked him a Round-head ; From Head to Heel Tony was sounded , And Y ------ soon put a Spoke in his Wheel . [ 5 ] But now little Tony in Passion , Like Boy that had nettl'd his Breech , Maliciously took and occasion , To make a most delicate Speech ; He told the King like a Croney ; If e're he hop'd to have Money , He must be Rul'd : O fine Tony ! Was ever Potent Monarch so School'd ? [ 6 ] The King issues out a Poclamation , By Learned and Loyal Advice ; But Tony possesses the Nation The Council will never be wise : For Tony is madder and madder , And M ------ blows like a Bladder , And L ------ too , Who grows gladder , That They Great York are like to subdue . [ 7 ] But Destiny shortly will cross it , For Tony's grown Gouty and Sick , In spite of his Spigot and Faucet , The Statesman must go to Old Neck : For Tony rails at the Papist , Yet He himself is and Atheist ; Though so precise , Foolish and Apish , Like Holy Quack or Priest in Disguise . [ 8 ] But now let this Rump of the Law-see , A Maxim as Learned in part ; Who e're with his Prince is too saucy , 'Tis fear'd he's a Traitor in's Hear Then Tony cease to be witty , By buzzing Treason i' th' City ; And love the King , So ends my Dity ; Or else let him die like a Dog in a string . Printed for Benjamin Harris at the Stationers Arms at the Royal Exchange , and are to be sold by Langley Curtis in Goatham Court on Ludgate-hill , 1681 : 