H : 131401  51a Oh Lord thy word is our sure touchstone . [ ? ] ass [ ? ] one [ ? ] ed a lass Oh Lord thy word is our sure touchstone That leads mankind , to his salvation Vice for to eschew , and all abomination Ipocrysie , Idolatry , which is men perdition Oh Lord is not the merits of thy passion A sure seal of from pardon , and remission That once was shed for men redemption ? Upon the cross was offered , that high oblation . O Lord thou didst thy father's wrath pacify Obedient thou wast unto a shameful death For men life , thou suffredest patiently Thou yeldest the ghost , as the scripture say And rose from death , to life the thyrde day And sittest in heaven , with great power & majesty Coequal with the father , this is no nay Making intercession , for us sinners perpetually . O Lord how long shall we weep and cry For fault of food , to the soul spiritual Thy watchmen are dome , and lie in their stye That leads mankind , to his salvation Vice for to eshewe , and all abomination Ipocrysie , Idolatry , which is men perdition Oh Lord is not the merits of thy passion A sure seal of from pardon , and remission That once was shed for men redemption ? Upon the cross was offered , that high oblation . O Lord thou didst thy father's wrath pacify Obedient thou wast unto a shameful death For men life , thou suffredest patiently Thou yeldest the ghost , as the scripture say And rose from death , to life the thyrde day And sittest in heaven , with great power & majesty Coequal with the father , this is no nay Making intercession , for us sinners perpetually . O Lord how long shall we weep and cry For fault of food , to the soul spiritual Thy watchmen are dome , and lie in their stye Their filthy livyng it so abominable To fede thy flock , they take no care nor pain To teach or preach , thy faithful testamentH : 131401  51a Oh Lord thy word is our sure touchstone . [ ? ] ass [ ? ] one [ ? ] ed a lass Oh Lord thy word is our sure touchstone That leads mankind , to his salvation Vice for to eschew , and all abomination Ipocrysie , Idolatry , which is men perdition Oh Lord is not the merits of thy passion A sure seal of from pardon , and remission That once was shed for men redemption ? Upon the cross was offered , that high oblation . O Lord thou didst thy father's wrath pacify Obedient thou wast unto a shameful death For men life , thou suffredest patiently Thou yeldest the ghost , as the scripture say And rose from death , to life the thyrde day And sittest in heaven , with great power & majesty Coequal with the father , this is no nay Making intercession , for us sinners perpetually . O Lord how long shall we weep and cry For fault of food , to the soul spiritual Thy watchmen are dome , and lie in their stye That leads mankind , to his salvation Vice for to eshewe , and all abomination Ipocrysie , Idolatry , which is men perdition Oh Lord is not the merits of thy passion A sure seal of from pardon , and remission That once was shed for men redemption ? Upon the cross was offered , that high oblation . O Lord thou didst thy father's wrath pacify Obedient thou wast unto a shameful death For men life , thou suffredest patiently Thou yeldest the ghost , as the scripture say And rose from death , to life the thyrde day And sittest in heaven , with great power & majesty Coequal with the father , this is no nay Making intercession , for us sinners perpetually . O Lord how long shall we weep and cry For fault of food , to the soul spiritual Thy watchmen are dome , and lie in their stye Their filthy livyng it so abominable To fede thy flock , they take no care nor pain To teach or preach , thy faithful testament 