H : 123914b The State Mountebanke . IF any body politic Of plenty , or of peace be sick , Ther's a Physician come to Town Of far stretched fame , and high renown ; Though cal'd a Mountebanke , 'tis ment ( Both words being French ) a Parliament . Who from Geneva , and Amsterdam , From Germany and Scotland came ; Now lies in London , but the place ( If men say true ) is in his face . His Scaffold stands on Tower hill , Where he on Strafford tri'd his skill ; Off went his head , you'l think him slave , But straight 'twas voted on again . Diurnals are his weekly bills Which show how many he cures and kills ; But of th' Errata wee'l advice , For cure read kill , for truth read lies . If any Traitor be diseas'd With a soar neck , and would be eas'd , Here is a pill he calls a Vote , Take it extempore , 'twill do't . If any conscience be too strict , Here's several bills from Lectures picked , Which swallow'd down , will stretch it full As far as 'tis from hence to Hull . Is any by Religion bound , Or Law ? and would be looser found , Here is a Glyster which we call His privilege o're topping all . Is any money left , or plate , Or goods ? bring't in at any rate ; Hee'l melt three shillings into one , And in a minute leave you none . Here's powder to inspire your lungs , Here's water that unties your tongues ; ( Spite of the Law ) 'twill set you free , To speak reason only lispingly . Here's Leetches , which if well appli'd , And fed , stick closely to your side , Till your superfluous blood deeay , Then they will break and drop away . But here's a sovereign Antidote ( Be sure your Sovereign never know't ) Apply it as your Doctor pleases , 'Twill cure all wounds , and all diseases . A drug none ( but himself e're saw . 'Tis cal'd a Fundamental Law . Here's glasses to delude the sighed , Dark lanthorns , here bastard light ; This ( if you conquer ) trebles men , ( If loose ) and hundred seems but ten . Here's Opium to lull asleep , And here lie dangerous plots in steep . Here stands the safety of the City , There hangs the invisible Committee . Plundring's the new Philosophers stone , Turns wares to gold , and gold to none . And here's and Ordinance that shall At one full shot enrich us all . He's skilled in the Mathematics , And with his circles can do tricks , By raising spirits that can smell Plots that are hatched as deep as Hell ; Which only to themselves are known , ( The Divel's ever kind to's own . ) All this he gratis does , and says Hee'l only take the Public faith . Flock to him then , make no delay , The next fair wind he must away . Finis . Oxford , Printed for Wil. Web. 1643. H : 123914b The State Mountebanke . IF any body politic Of plenty , or of peace be sick , Ther's a Physician come to Town Of far stretched fame , and high renown ; Though cal'd a Mountebanke , 'tis ment ( Both words being French ) a Parliament . Who from Geneva , and Amsterdam , From Germany and Scotland came ; Now lies in London , but the place ( If men say true ) is in his face . His Scaffold stands on Tower hill , Where he on Strafford tri'd his skill ; Off went his head , you'l think him slave , But straight 'twas voted on again . Diurnals are his weekly bills Which show how many he cures and kills ; But of th' Errata wee'l advice , For cure read kill , for truth read lies . If any Traitor be diseas'd With a soar neck , and would be eas'd , Here is a pill he calls a Vote , Take it extempore , 'twill do't . If any conscience be too strict , Here's several bills from Lectures picked , Which swallow'd down , will stretch it full As far as 'tis from hence to Hull . Is any by Religion bound , Or Law ? and would be looser found , Here is a Glyster which we call His privilege o're topping all . Is any money left , or plate , Or goods ? bring't in at any rate ; Hee'l melt three shillings into one , And in a minute leave you none . Here's powder to inspire your lungs , Here's water that unties your tongues ; ( Spite of the Law ) 'twill set you free , To speak reason only lispingly . Here's Leetches , which if well appli'd , And fed , stick closely to your side , Till your superfluous blood deeay , Then they will break and drop away . But here's a sovereign Antidote ( Be sure your Sovereign never know't ) Apply it as your Doctor pleases , 'Twill cure all wounds , and all diseases . A drug none ( but himself e're saw . 'Tis cal'd a Fundamental Law . Here's glasses to delude the sighed , Dark lanthorns , here bastard light ; This ( if you conquer ) trebles men , ( If loose ) and hundred seems but ten . Here's Opium to lull asleep , And here lie dangerous plots in steep . Here stands the safety of the City , There hangs the invisible Committee . Plundring's the new Philosophers stone , Turns wares to gold , and gold to none . And here's and Ordinance that shall At one full shot enrich us all . He's skilled in the Mathematics , And with his circles can do tricks , By raising spirits that can smell Plots that are hatched as deep as Hell ; Which only to themselves are known , ( The Divel's ever kind to's own . ) All this he gratis does , and says Hee'l only take the Public faith . Flock to him then , make no delay , The next fair wind he must away . Finis . Oxford , Printed for Wil. Web. 1643. 