A Godly new Ballad , Entitled , A Douzen of Points . A Douzen of Points , you here may read , Whereon each Christian Soul may feed . THe gift is small , a Douzen of Points , wherewith i'de wish you knit your joints Keep well the same and credit me , Thy Life more pure and just will be . The first points this , i'de wish you keep , Is that at night before you sleep , See still you ask God forgiveness , Of all your sins and wickedness . The second point is this I say , When thou dost see the cheerful day , Arise and praise the God of might , That hath defended thee all night . The third is that thou should'st require , And on thy bent knees desire , The God of Heaven to be thy stay , For to preserve thee night and day . The fourth does bid thee to beware , And to avoid the subtle snare , For Satan with his crafty power , Does seek Men's soul for to devour , The fifth good Council does thee give , And warn thee well while thou dost live , To keep thy Conscience clear and pure , Then God will bless thee to be sure . The sixth of these my Points do will , That thou devise no subtle skill : Whereby to work thy Neighbours woe , Take heed I say , and do not so . The seventh says , defraud no man , But deal as justly as you can , The Widow and the Fatherless defend , So God will bless thee to the end . The eighth does bid thee more or less , Still to beware of Drunkenness , For Drunkards are abhorred by God , On whom he lays his heavy rod , The ninth says fornication fly , Those wicked Harlots will make thee die : Thy body theyl consume , I say , And bring thy soul unto decay . The tenth does day , do not forswear , False witness against no man bear : Let no affections sway thy mind , The eye of Justice so to blind . The eleventh enjoins thee not to desire , Thy Neighbours goods for to require : But the ten Commandments observe , So thou shalt stand and never swerve , The twelfth says serve the God of might , And truly serve him day and night , Obey the King as 'tis thy part , And to thy Country bear a faithful heart . See these my Points thou dost possess , Even when thou thy self does rest , Keep well each one in his degree , And knit them fast then credit me . The Angel Gabriel , his Salutation to the Virgin Marry . Tune is , The blazing Torch , WHen righteous Joseph wedded was , to Israels Hebrew Maid , A glorious Angel came from Heaven , who to the Virgin said , Hail blessed Marry full of Grace , the Lord remains with thee , Thou shalt conceive and bore a Son thy Saviour to be . That's wondrous strange quoth Marry then , I should conceive and breed Being never touched of Mortal Man , but pure in thought and deed : Fear not quoth Gabriel by and by , it is no work of man , But only God ordain'd at first , before the world began . Which Heavenly message she believes and did to Jury go , Three months with her friends to stay , Gods blessed will to show , And then return'd to Joseph back , her husband meek and mild , who thought it strange his wife should be untouch'd , thus grown with Child . Wherefore thought he , to shun the same , he thought her to forsake , But that Gods Angel in his sleep , Gods mind did undertake . Fear not just Joseph this thy wife , is still a spotless Maid , And no consent to since , quoth he , against her can be laid . For she is a pure Maid and Wife , the Mother of Gods own heir , The Babe of Heaven , and blessed Lamb of Israels flock so fair , To save lost sheep to Satan sold , whom Adam lost by fraud , When first in Edens Paradise the Lord had him bestow'd . Thus Marry with her Husband kind , together did remain , Until the time of Jesus birth , as Scripture does make plain : Thus Mother , Wife , and Virgin pure , our Saviour sweet conceiv'd , All three in one , to bring us joy , of which we were bereav'd . Sing praises then both old and young , to him which wrought such things , That thus without the help of Man , sent us the King of Kings : Which is of such a blessed Power , that with his word can quell , The world , the flesh , and by his death . could conquer Death and Hell . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Godly new Ballad , Entitled , A Douzen of Points . A Douzen of Points , you here may read , Whereon each Christian Soul may feed . THe gift is small , a Douzen of Points , wherewith i'de wish you knit your joints Keep well the same and credit me , Thy Life more pure and just will be . The first points this , i'de wish you keep , Is that at night before you sleep , See still you ask God forgiveness , Of all your sins and wickedness . The second point is this I say , When thou dost see the cheerful day , Arise and praise the God of might , That hath defended thee all night . The third is that thou should'st require , And on thy bent knees desire , The God of Heaven to be thy stay , For to preserve thee night and day . The fourth does bid thee to beware , And to avoid the subtle snare , For Satan with his crafty power , Does seek Men's soul for to devour , The fifth good Council does thee give , And warn thee well while thou dost live , To keep thy Conscience clear and pure , Then God will bless thee to be sure . The sixth of these my Points do will , That thou devise no subtle skill : Whereby to work thy Neighbours woe , Take heed I say , and do not so . The seventh says , defraud no man , But deal as justly as you can , The Widow and the Fatherless defend , So God will bless thee to the end . The eighth does bid thee more or less , Still to beware of Drunkenness , For Drunkards are abhorred by God , On whom he lays his heavy rod , The ninth says fornication fly , Those wicked Harlots will make thee die : Thy body theyl consume , I say , And bring thy soul unto decay . The tenth does day , do not forswear , False witness against no man bear : Let no affections sway thy mind , The eye of Justice so to blind . The eleventh enjoins thee not to desire , Thy Neighbours goods for to require : But the ten Commandments observe , So thou shalt stand and never swerve , The twelfth says serve the God of might , And truly serve him day and night , Obey the King as 'tis thy part , And to thy Country bear a faithful heart . See these my Points thou dost possess , Even when thou thy self does rest , Keep well each one in his degree , And knit them fast then credit me . The Angel Gabriel , his Salutation to the Virgin Marry . Tune is , The blazing Torch , WHen righteous Joseph wedded was , to Israels Hebrew Maid , A glorious Angel came from Heaven , who to the Virgin said , Hail blessed Marry full of Grace , the Lord remains with thee , Thou shalt conceive and bore a Son thy Saviour to be . That's wondrous strange quoth Marry then , I should conceive and breed Being never touched of Mortal Man , but pure in thought and deed : Fear not quoth Gabriel by and by , it is no work of man , But only God ordain'd at first , before the world began . Which Heavenly message she believes and did to Jury go , Three months with her friends to stay , Gods blessed will to show , And then return'd to Joseph back , her husband meek and mild , who thought it strange his wife should be untouch'd , thus grown with Child . Wherefore thought he , to shun the same , he thought her to forsake , But that Gods Angel in his sleep , Gods mind did undertake . Fear not just Joseph this thy wife , is still a spotless Maid , And no consent to since , quoth he , against her can be laid . For she is a pure Maid and Wife , the Mother of Gods own heir , The Babe of Heaven , and blessed Lamb of Israels flock so fair , To save lost sheep to Satan sold , whom Adam lost by fraud , When first in Edens Paradise the Lord had him bestow'd . Thus Marry with her Husband kind , together did remain , Until the time of Jesus birth , as Scripture does make plain : Thus Mother , Wife , and Virgin pure , our Saviour sweet conceiv'd , All three in one , to bring us joy , of which we were bereav'd . Sing praises then both old and young , to him which wrought such things , That thus without the help of Man , sent us the King of Kings : Which is of such a blessed Power , that with his word can quell , The world , the flesh , and by his death . could conquer Death and Hell . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 