b A Ballad , Entitled , The Old men Complaint against him [ s ] Wretched Son , who to Advance his Marriage , did undo himself . To the same Tune , ALL you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found , work your extremity , For to advance my Son , in Marriage wealthily , I have my self undone , without all remedy , I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way , With many checks and taunts , am grieved every day : Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of Bred , but at my Children's hand . While I was to fit , chief at the Tables end , Now like a Servant slave , must I on them attend , I must not come in place where their friends merry be Lest I should my Son disgrace , with my unreverency , My coughing in the night , offends my Daughter-in-Law , My deafness and ill sighed , does much disliking draw , Fie on this doting fool , this crooked Churl ( quoth she ) The Chimney-corner still , must with him troubled be , I must rise from my Chair , to give my Children place , I must speak Servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell , ( I must not say they lie ) That they do keep me here , even of mere Charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead , yet say i'le never die : Oh Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case , No honest man before , ever took such disgrace . This was the Old man's plaint every night and day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say . This rich and dainty pair , the youngman and his Wife , Though clog'd with Golden Coin , yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were , and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'r and Heir , their Riches to embrace : Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd , Quoth she a hundred pound , would I give for a Child : To have a joyful Child , of my own body born , Full oft I am revil'd , of this my barren Womb : Much Physic did she take to make a fruitful soil . And with access thereof , her body she did spoil . Full of grief , full of pain , full of each grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men . That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , never fell to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win : So that I had my health , and from this pain was free , I would give all my wealth , that Blessed day to see : Oh that I my health had , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not though I went , begging from door to door : Fie on this muck , quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity . Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last her self within the bed . Her Husband full of grief , consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die : E're thirteen years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still ; Injoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many years after that , liv'd he most happily . Far richer then before , by this means was he known : He helped the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown . But this was all his Song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed , live on their Children's hand . Printed for and Sold by W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck Lane , J.M. and A.M. b A Ballad , Entitled , The Old men Complaint against him [ s ] Wretched Son , who to Advance his Marriage , did undo himself . To the same Tune , ALL you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found , work your extremity , For to advance my Son , in Marriage wealthily , I have my self undone , without all remedy , I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way , With many checks and taunts , am grieved every day : Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of Bred , but at my Children's hand . While I was to fit , chief at the Tables end , Now like a Servant slave , must I on them attend , I must not come in place where their friends merry be Lest I should my Son disgrace , with my unreverency , My coughing in the night , offends my Daughter-in-Law , My deafness and ill sighed , does much disliking draw , Fie on this doting fool , this crooked Churl ( quoth she ) The Chimney-corner still , must with him troubled be , I must rise from my Chair , to give my Children place , I must speak Servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell , ( I must not say they lie ) That they do keep me here , even of mere Charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead , yet say i'le never die : Oh Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case , No honest man before , ever took such disgrace . This was the Old man's plaint every night and day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say . This rich and dainty pair , the youngman and his Wife , Though clog'd with Golden Coin , yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were , and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'r and Heir , their Riches to embrace : Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd , Quoth she a hundred pound , would I give for a Child : To have a joyful Child , of my own body born , Full oft I am revil'd , of this my barren Womb : Much Physic did she take to make a fruitful soil . And with access thereof , her body she did spoil . Full of grief , full of pain , full of each grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men . That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , never fell to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win : So that I had my health , and from this pain was free , I would give all my wealth , that Blessed day to see : Oh that I my health had , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not though I went , begging from door to door : Fie on this muck , quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity . Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last her self within the bed . Her Husband full of grief , consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die : E're thirteen years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still ; Injoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many years after that , liv'd he most happily . Far richer then before , by this means was he known : He helped the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown . But this was all his Song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed , live on their Children's hand . Printed for and Sold by W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck Lane , J.M. and A.M. 