H : 18337b The Tragedies Lenvoy . AS men records , Indeed my Lords , I shrink not for to show : Suppose you crack , You lie aback , And lybelles by the Law . You make not to , As men should do , I trow you stand in some awe : Suppose you hight , To see you fight , That day will never daw . Is not remayd , From he be dead , No man to seek amends : Or who is here , Dare break a spear , Upon yone limmeris lends You dare not mum , Till Sadler come , To see what England sends : Thinking to say it , And ay delay it , And so the matter ends . With sighs and sobs , And belted robes , You counterfeit the dule : What doughty deeds , To wear such weeds ? Except it were a fool . Make to the town , And cow them down , Now or your courage cule For Maddie says , Bide you few days , You be not their while Zule . Is this the thing , Who guides the King ? You cannot all agree : Now fie for shame , Fetch Levenox hame , You have none nar nor he . If he want grace , To guide that place , There is other two or three : Then war I fain , But all in vain , To wish and will not be . And some there be , Waits on the Queen , But gape awhil they get her And were she here , I take no fear , The Fiend aby we set her , For we are now , As stark I trow , As farnzer when we met her When all is done , They start to soon , To boast , & not the better . I think it best , You take no rest , If you durst under take i And we be true , We are iniew , You shall be boldly back it . But sine I see , It will not be , That metre will not make it The Fiend make cair , I say na mair , I rew that ever I spoke it . Finis . Rob. Sempill . Imprinted at Lon - dONE by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britaine street , with - out Aldersgate . 1570. H : 18337b The Tragedies Lenvoy . AS men records , Indeed my Lords , I shrink not for to show : Suppose you crack , You lie aback , And lybelles by the Law . You make not to , As men should do , I trow you stand in some awe : Suppose you hight , To see you fight , That day will never daw . Is not remayd , From he be dead , No man to seek amends : Or who is here , Dare break a spear , Upon yone limmeris lends You dare not mum , Till Sadler come , To see what England sends : Thinking to say it , And ay delay it , And so the matter ends . With sighs and sobs , And belted robes , You counterfeit the dule : What doughty deeds , To wear such weeds ? Except it were a fool . Make to the town , And cow them down , Now or your courage cule For Maddie says , Bide you few days , You be not their while Zule . Is this the thing , Who guides the King ? You cannot all agree : Now fie for shame , Fetch Levenox hame , You have none nar nor he . If he want grace , To guide that place , There is other two or three : Then war I fain , But all in vain , To wish and will not be . And some there be , Waits on the Queen , But gape awhil they get her And were she here , I take no fear , The Fiend aby we set her , For we are now , As stark I trow , As farnzer when we met her When all is done , They start to soon , To boast , & not the better . I think it best , You take no rest , If you durst under take i And we be true , We are iniew , You shall be boldly back it . But sine I see , It will not be , That metre will not make it The Fiend make cair , I say na mair , I rew that ever I spoke it . Finis . Rob. Sempill . Imprinted at Lon - dONE by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britaine street , with - out Aldersgate . 1570. 