Strephon and Cloris : OR , The Coy Shepherd and Kind Shepherdess . He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray , And from her kind Embraces would away ; But she with loving Charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it much the better : When Flocks & Herds , & all concerns do fail , Love must be satisfied , and will prevail . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune ; Or , Love will find out the way . Behold dread Cupid , with his Golden Dart , And bent Bow , does pierce each Shepherd's heart ; Witness here Strephon yields to Loves Essays , His Head being Crown'd with never-fading Bays . AH ! Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For it is a cold Windy morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing , Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on wing Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry , ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . MY Shepherd I come , though I'm all over sorrow But I swear i'le not love you if you rise so tomorrow : For methinks it's unkind , thus early to rise , and not bid me good morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O hark , my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep , I'le stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sleep : My Flocks they may wander , one hour , two , or three , But if I lose thy favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much sorrow and woe : And for thy reward I will give thee a Kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true Lovers bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phoebus his Beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsman does follow the cry , And makes the woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsman , may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou know'st my dear shepherd , there is no delight , Like Lovers Enjoyment , from morning till night . Alas my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire : The Lambs are new Yeaned , and tender for Prey , And I fear the sly wolf she should bear them away . My Love do not fear it , the wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging in his Mossy bed : Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree , And I promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah Cloris ! thy words are so powerful with me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee : Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God Cupid I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'l part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods , that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain : Where I shall record thy true Love in such Rhimes For Shepherd's to admire in succeeding times . Printed for J. Clarke , at the Horshooe , in West-smithfield Strephon and Cloris : OR , The Coy Shepherd and Kind Shepherdess . He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray , And from her kind Embraces would away ; But she with loving Charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it much the better : When Flocks & Herds , & all concerns do fail , Love must be satisfied , and will prevail . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune ; Or , Love will find out the way . Behold dread Cupid , with his Golden Dart , And bent Bow , does pierce each Shepherd's heart ; Witness here Strephon yields to Loves Essays , His Head being Crown'd with never-fading Bays . AH ! Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For it is a cold Windy morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing , Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on wing Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry , ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . MY Shepherd I come , though I'm all over sorrow But I swear i'le not love you if you rise so tomorrow : For methinks it's unkind , thus early to rise , and not bid me good morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O hark , my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep , I'le stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sleep : My Flocks they may wander , one hour , two , or three , But if I lose thy favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much sorrow and woe : And for thy reward I will give thee a Kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true Lovers bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phoebus his Beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsman does follow the cry , And makes the woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsman , may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou know'st my dear shepherd , there is no delight , Like Lovers Enjoyment , from morning till night . Alas my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire : The Lambs are new Yeaned , and tender for Prey , And I fear the sly wolf she should bear them away . My Love do not fear it , the wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging in his Mossy bed : Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree , And I promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah Cloris ! thy words are so powerful with me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee : Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God Cupid I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'l part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods , that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain : Where I shall record thy true Love in such Rhimes For Shepherd's to admire in succeeding times . Printed for J. Clarke , at the Horshooe , in West-smithfield 