H : 135850 A RARE SHOW . To the Tune of I am a Senseless Thing . Leviathan . COme hither , Topham , come , with a heigh , with a heigh , Bring a Pipe and a Drum , with a ho , Where e're about I go , Attend my Rare show , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Topham . That monstrous Foul Beast , with a heigh , with a heigh , Has Houses Twain in's Chest , with a ho , Oh Cooper , Hughs and Snow , Stop Thief with Rare Show , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . For if he should escape , with a heigh , with a heigh , With Halifaxes Trap with a ho , He'd carry good Dom. Com. Unto the Pope of Rome , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Levi. Be quiet the Dull Tools , with a heigh , with a heigh , As other Freeborn Fools with a ho , Do not all Gaping stand , To see my Slight of Hand ? With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . 'Tis not to Room that I , with a heigh , with a heigh , Lugg about my Trumpery , with a ho , But Oxford , York , Carlile , And round about the Isle , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . But if they would come out , with a heigh , with a heigh , Let them first make a Vote , with a ho , To yield up all they have , And Tower Lords to save , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Top. Now that is very hard , with a heigh , with a heigh , Thou art worse than Cut-nose Guard , with a ho , And Clifford , Danby , Hide , Hallifax does all outride , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Holy Ghost in Bag of Cloak , with a heigh , with a heigh , Quaking King in hollow Oak , with a ho , And Rosamond in Bower , All Badges are of Power , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . And Popularity , with a heigh , with a heigh , Adds Power to Majesty , with a ho , But Dom. Com. in little Ease , Will all the World Displease , With a heigh , Trony nony nony no . Levi. Let 'um hate so they fear , with a heigh , with a heigh , Cursed Fox has the best Cheer , with a ho , Two States in Blind-house penned , Make brave strong Government , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Top. But Child of Heathen Hobbs , with a heigh , with a heigh , Remember old Dry Bobbs , with a ho , For Fleecing Englands Flocks , Long Fed with Bits and Knocks , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Levi. What's passed , is not to come , with a heigh , with a heigh , Now Safe is David's Bum , with a ho , Then heigh for Oxford ho , Strong Government , Rare Show , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Rare Show is Resoul'd , with a heigh , with a heigh , This is worse than Disoul'd , with a ho , May the mighty weight at 's back Make 's Lecherous Loins to crack , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Methinks he seems to Stagger , with a heigh , with a heigh , Who but now did so Swagger , with a ho , Gods-Fish he's Stuck i' th' Mire , And all the Fat's i' th' Fire , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Help Cooper , Hughs , and Snow , with a heigh , with a heigh , To pull down Rare Show , with a ho , So , So , the Gyant's down , Let's Master's out of Pound , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . And now you have freed the Nation , with a heigh , with a heigh , Cram in the Convocation , with a ho , With Pensioners all and Some , Into this Chest of Room , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no , And thrust in six and Twenty , with a heigh , with a heigh , With Not Guilty , good plenty , with a ho , And hout them hence away , To Cologne or Breda , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Haloo the Hunt's begun , with a heigh , with a heigh , Like Father , Like Son , with a ho , Rare Show in French-Lap , Is gone to take a Nap , And Successor has the Clap , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . London , Printed for B.T. and Sold at his Shop in Pauls Churchyard : For the good of the Public , 1681. H : 135850 A RARE SHOW . To the Tune of I am a Senseless Thing . Leviathan . COme hither , Topham , come , with a heigh , with a heigh , Bring a Pipe and a Drum , with a ho , Where e're about I go , Attend my Rare show , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Topham . That monstrous Foul Beast , with a heigh , with a heigh , Has Houses Twain in's Chest , with a ho , Oh Cooper , Hughs and Snow , Stop Thief with Rare Show , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . For if he should escape , with a heigh , with a heigh , With Halifaxes Trap with a ho , He'd carry good Dom. Com. Unto the Pope of Rome , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Levi. Be quiet the Dull Tools , with a heigh , with a heigh , As other Freeborn Fools with a ho , Do not all Gaping stand , To see my Slight of Hand ? With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . 'Tis not to Room that I , with a heigh , with a heigh , Lugg about my Trumpery , with a ho , But Oxford , York , Carlile , And round about the Isle , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . But if they would come out , with a heigh , with a heigh , Let them first make a Vote , with a ho , To yield up all they have , And Tower Lords to save , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Top. Now that is very hard , with a heigh , with a heigh , Thou art worse than Cut-nose Guard , with a ho , And Clifford , Danby , Hide , Hallifax does all outride , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Holy Ghost in Bag of Cloak , with a heigh , with a heigh , Quaking King in hollow Oak , with a ho , And Rosamond in Bower , All Badges are of Power , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . And Popularity , with a heigh , with a heigh , Adds Power to Majesty , with a ho , But Dom. Com. in little Ease , Will all the World Displease , With a heigh , Trony nony nony no . Levi. Let 'um hate so they fear , with a heigh , with a heigh , Cursed Fox has the best Cheer , with a ho , Two States in Blind-house penned , Make brave strong Government , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Top. But Child of Heathen Hobbs , with a heigh , with a heigh , Remember old Dry Bobbs , with a ho , For Fleecing Englands Flocks , Long Fed with Bits and Knocks , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Levi. What's passed , is not to come , with a heigh , with a heigh , Now Safe is David's Bum , with a ho , Then heigh for Oxford ho , Strong Government , Rare Show , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Rare Show is Resoul'd , with a heigh , with a heigh , This is worse than Disoul'd , with a ho , May the mighty weight at 's back Make 's Lecherous Loins to crack , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Methinks he seems to Stagger , with a heigh , with a heigh , Who but now did so Swagger , with a ho , Gods-Fish he's Stuck i' th' Mire , And all the Fat's i' th' Fire , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Help Cooper , Hughs , and Snow , with a heigh , with a heigh , To pull down Rare Show , with a ho , So , So , the Gyant's down , Let's Master's out of Pound , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . And now you have freed the Nation , with a heigh , with a heigh , Cram in the Convocation , with a ho , With Pensioners all and Some , Into this Chest of Room , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no , And thrust in six and Twenty , with a heigh , with a heigh , With Not Guilty , good plenty , with a ho , And hout them hence away , To Cologne or Breda , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . Haloo the Hunt's begun , with a heigh , with a heigh , Like Father , Like Son , with a ho , Rare Show in French-Lap , Is gone to take a Nap , And Successor has the Clap , With a heigh , Trany nony nony no . London , Printed for B.T. and Sold at his Shop in Pauls Churchyard : For the good of the Public , 1681. 