THE True Lovers Tragedy : Being and Incomparable Ballad of a Gentleman and his Lady , That both Killed themselves for Love , under the disguised Names of Philander and Phillis . Phillis Philanders scattered Garments finds , And thinks him slave , for which with Fate she joins , And with her Fatal Poniard striketh deep , As Life no longer can it's station keep , The Crimsoe Streams so fast flowed from her Veins , Yet Dying , of her Loves dear loss complains : No sooner Death had closed up her Starry eyes , But her return'd Philander her espies ; And finding that for him she lost her breath , He kills himself , and crowns his Love with death . To the Tune of , Ah Cruel Bloody Fate . AH Cruel Bloody Fate , what canst thou now do more ? Alas 'tis now too late , Philander to Restore ; Why shou'd the Heavenly powers pedswade , Poor Mortals to believe , That they guard us here , And reward us there , Yet all our joys deceive . Her Poigniard then she took , and held it in her hand , Then with a dying look , cry'd thus I Fate command : Philander ! ah my Love I come , to meet the shade below ; Ah! I come she cry'd , with a wound so wide , There needs no second blow . Then Purple Waves of Blood , ran streaming down the floor , Unmov'd she saw the Flood , and bless'd her dying hour : Philander , and Philander still , the bleeding Phillis cry'd , She wept a while , and forc'd a smile , then clos'd her Eyes and dy'd . Upon the Blushing Ground , stain'd with her Virgin blood , She lay in Death's deep Swoon , close by the murmuring Flood : Which for the lovely Phillis sake , complain'd of cruel fate , Which had caus'd such care , as had wrought despair , I weep it to relate . When lo Philander came , with joy to seek his Love , And her dear promise claim , while Moon-beams from above , Did twincle through the thickest shade , and guild the flowery plain , When he espys , And ah Phillis cries ( not thinking she was slave ) Arise , arise from Earth , shake off this dull repose , Phillis my only mirth to thee Philander bows , Sooner I would have come to thee , had not a Lion stayed , My course to fight , For which exploit , he Lifeless now is made . Ah me , what's this ! she's cold , you Gods quite breathless too , Oh Death durst thou enfold , this beauty's not thy due : Alas ? O cruel Fate he cry'd , by her own hand 'tis well O the fatal blow , That did overthrow , by Heavens for me she fell . Behold my Garments dy'd , in Phillis precious blood , Which falling from my side , made her suppose me dead : And therefore fell for love of me , ah cruel destiny And shall Philander , Live to wander , No by the Powers i'le die ? I come my Phillis now , prepare , for in thy Arms , I will perform my vow , a sleep like Death now charms : These Ciprus wreaths our Crowns shall be we'l Triumph over death , From thy fair lip , I'le Nectar Sip , Even with my latest breath . With that his Fatal Sword , he plunged in his breast , And sigh'd with dying words , O now I am at res Now Phillis now for ever mine , Fate now no more shall part , Then through the Wound , Life passage found , And left the Lovers Heart . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , near West-Smithfiield . THE True Lovers Tragedy : Being and Incomparable Ballad of a Gentleman and his Lady , That both Killed themselves for Love , under the disguised Names of Philander and Phillis . Phillis Philanders scattered Garments finds , And thinks him slave , for which with Fate she joins , And with her Fatal Poniard striketh deep , As Life no longer can it's station keep , The Crimsoe Streams so fast flowed from her Veins , Yet Dying , of her Loves dear loss complains : No sooner Death had closed up her Starry eyes , But her return'd Philander her espies ; And finding that for him she lost her breath , He kills himself , and crowns his Love with death . To the Tune of , Ah Cruel Bloody Fate . AH Cruel Bloody Fate , what canst thou now do more ? Alas 'tis now too late , Philander to Restore ; Why shou'd the Heavenly powers pedswade , Poor Mortals to believe , That they guard us here , And reward us there , Yet all our joys deceive . Her Poigniard then she took , and held it in her hand , Then with a dying look , cry'd thus I Fate command : Philander ! ah my Love I come , to meet the shade below ; Ah! I come she cry'd , with a wound so wide , There needs no second blow . Then Purple Waves of Blood , ran streaming down the floor , Unmov'd she saw the Flood , and bless'd her dying hour : Philander , and Philander still , the bleeding Phillis cry'd , She wept a while , and forc'd a smile , then clos'd her Eyes and dy'd . Upon the Blushing Ground , stain'd with her Virgin blood , She lay in Death's deep Swoon , close by the murmuring Flood : Which for the lovely Phillis sake , complain'd of cruel fate , Which had caus'd such care , as had wrought despair , I weep it to relate . When lo Philander came , with joy to seek his Love , And her dear promise claim , while Moon-beams from above , Did twincle through the thickest shade , and guild the flowery plain , When he espys , And ah Phillis cries ( not thinking she was slave ) Arise , arise from Earth , shake off this dull repose , Phillis my only mirth to thee Philander bows , Sooner I would have come to thee , had not a Lion stayed , My course to fight , For which exploit , he Lifeless now is made . Ah me , what's this ! she's cold , you Gods quite breathless too , Oh Death durst thou enfold , this beauty's not thy due : Alas ? O cruel Fate he cry'd , by her own hand 'tis well O the fatal blow , That did overthrow , by Heavens for me she fell . Behold my Garments dy'd , in Phillis precious blood , Which falling from my side , made her suppose me dead : And therefore fell for love of me , ah cruel destiny And shall Philander , Live to wander , No by the Powers i'le die ? I come my Phillis now , prepare , for in thy Arms , I will perform my vow , a sleep like Death now charms : These Ciprus wreaths our Crowns shall be we'l Triumph over death , From thy fair lip , I'le Nectar Sip , Even with my latest breath . With that his Fatal Sword , he plunged in his breast , And sigh'd with dying words , O now I am at res Now Phillis now for ever mine , Fate now no more shall part , Then through the Wound , Life passage found , And left the Lovers Heart . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , near West-Smithfiield . 