Mars and Venus : OR , The Amorous Combatants . Mars strives for to give Venus Castle the rout , But she most valiantly did beatrice him out ; He lost the day for all he was three to one , He could not stay , his powder all was gone : And furthermore he god a soar mischance , To save some Balls he spoiled his best Lance ; She bids him come as often as he will , For all his force , she can resist him still . To a pleasant New Tune , or , Mars and Venus . ABroad of late as I was walking , in the Fields to take the air , Mars and Venus there was talking , in a pleasant shady Bower . I stepped close and sat down by them , They little thought I had been so nigh them , for to understand the matter , Whereunto they fram'd their talk , Mars vapoured thus as he did walk . Says Mars I am the God of Battle , and chief General of the Field ; I long to hear the Cannons rattle , I am arm'd with Lance , Spear & Shield I set forth with strong invasions , I conquer Castles , Towns , and Nations , there's no Champion dare resist me , I conquer all where e're I go , In spite of him that dare say no . But hark you Mars , methinks you vapour , ther's one Castle you ne'r wone ; The Mistress of it ne'r drew Rapier , and in it there's never a Gun : Yet I dare lay both marks & pounds on't that if e're you come within the bounds on't e're you come off , you'l loose men there ; And be forc'd for to retreat , And it's ten to one but you'l be beatrice . IN truth ( said Mars ) could I but spy it , I will venture there to fight ; That same Castle if e're I come nigh it , I will storm it by day or by nigh Tell me therefore where it stands , And the names the which it commands , that same Castle which you treat on , And I will thank you for your pains , And be sure of this i'le make you amends . It's Coney-hall , near Navil-court , it's at the Fort of Belly-hill ; Near Blew-hole-lane you may resort to't or Bum-alley whither you will . Through Placket-entry there is the way to't In the low-country there you may go to't Venus she's the Mistress of it , And was never conquer'd by War , Although there be no fence but hair . Up to this Castle Mars drew his Army , and Bum-alley up did block ; He was clad in gallant Armour , she her own field fill'd with her smock , He laid such a close siege round about it , that there was none could come in or out it this call'd Venus to a parley , And to Mars away she went , Desiring for to know his intent . Says Mars I am come to win this Castle , and i'le take it before I go , Says Venus it's in vain to wrestle , you cannot enter it as a Foe : You must beatrice a Alarm on my belly , A point of War a Troopers rally , Tat too , Tat too , we march awoy boys Tick Track is a gallant sport , And on these terms i'le yield the Fort. Up to this Castle Mars he ventured , and in it he thrust his Lance ; But he repented that he had ventured , for his Weapon god a mischance : And straightway it fell sick upon it , And in Coney-hall was forced to vomit , that caus'd Venus to be angry , And out o'th door she did him kick , And was not that and uncivil trick ? Says Mars I am by a woman foiled , I will never come there any more , I fear my Lance that she hath spoiled , when she kicked me out o'th door : Farewell Venus , farewell Coney-hall , Farewell Bum-alley , adieu to you all , I will ne'r come there any more boys , Except that she had prov'd more true , And so I bid you all adieu . FINIS : Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackera and T. Passenger . Mars and Venus : OR , The Amorous Combatants . Mars strives for to give Venus Castle the rout , But she most valiantly did beatrice him out ; He lost the day for all he was three to one , He could not stay , his powder all was gone : And furthermore he god a soar mischance , To save some Balls he spoiled his best Lance ; She bids him come as often as he will , For all his force , she can resist him still . To a pleasant New Tune , or , Mars and Venus . ABroad of late as I was walking , in the Fields to take the air , Mars and Venus there was talking , in a pleasant shady Bower . I stepped close and sat down by them , They little thought I had been so nigh them , for to understand the matter , Whereunto they fram'd their talk , Mars vapoured thus as he did walk . Says Mars I am the God of Battle , and chief General of the Field ; I long to hear the Cannons rattle , I am arm'd with Lance , Spear & Shield I set forth with strong invasions , I conquer Castles , Towns , and Nations , there's no Champion dare resist me , I conquer all where e're I go , In spite of him that dare say no . But hark you Mars , methinks you vapour , ther's one Castle you ne'r wone ; The Mistress of it ne'r drew Rapier , and in it there's never a Gun : Yet I dare lay both marks & pounds on't that if e're you come within the bounds on't e're you come off , you'l loose men there ; And be forc'd for to retreat , And it's ten to one but you'l be beatrice . IN truth ( said Mars ) could I but spy it , I will venture there to fight ; That same Castle if e're I come nigh it , I will storm it by day or by nigh Tell me therefore where it stands , And the names the which it commands , that same Castle which you treat on , And I will thank you for your pains , And be sure of this i'le make you amends . It's Coney-hall , near Navil-court , it's at the Fort of Belly-hill ; Near Blew-hole-lane you may resort to't or Bum-alley whither you will . Through Placket-entry there is the way to't In the low-country there you may go to't Venus she's the Mistress of it , And was never conquer'd by War , Although there be no fence but hair . Up to this Castle Mars drew his Army , and Bum-alley up did block ; He was clad in gallant Armour , she her own field fill'd with her smock , He laid such a close siege round about it , that there was none could come in or out it this call'd Venus to a parley , And to Mars away she went , Desiring for to know his intent . Says Mars I am come to win this Castle , and i'le take it before I go , Says Venus it's in vain to wrestle , you cannot enter it as a Foe : You must beatrice a Alarm on my belly , A point of War a Troopers rally , Tat too , Tat too , we march awoy boys Tick Track is a gallant sport , And on these terms i'le yield the Fort. Up to this Castle Mars he ventured , and in it he thrust his Lance ; But he repented that he had ventured , for his Weapon god a mischance : And straightway it fell sick upon it , And in Coney-hall was forced to vomit , that caus'd Venus to be angry , And out o'th door she did him kick , And was not that and uncivil trick ? Says Mars I am by a woman foiled , I will never come there any more , I fear my Lance that she hath spoiled , when she kicked me out o'th door : Farewell Venus , farewell Coney-hall , Farewell Bum-alley , adieu to you all , I will ne'r come there any more boys , Except that she had prov'd more true , And so I bid you all adieu . FINIS : Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackera and T. Passenger . 