JENNY's Lamentation For the loss of her JEMMY . She wander'd up and down for Love , Till she was weary grown , Then sat down in a shady Grove , and thus she made her moan . Tune of , Jenny Gin , or Busy Fame . A Woe's me ! poor harmless Maid , my hope's are quite undone , For J [ e ] mmy he is from me fled , who onst I thought my own : Alas ! he's gone for evermore from her who lov'd him well , Who will his memory adore , whilst upon Earth I dwell . Ah! cruel Swain , that thou shou'd prove so perjur'd to thy Love , To make her wander in this Grove , like to the Turtle Dove , Who losing of her Mate , does pine , and moan itself to death ; So I shall murmur to the wind as long as I have breath . Could thou so faithless prove to one that gave to thee her heart ; Remember but the Oaths thou'st sworn that we shou'd never par You kissed my hand , and squez'd it hard , and swore and vow'd that I Should ever you of love debar , immediately you die . But Jemmy when you hear I'm gone , and that for you I dy'd , Your conquest then will soon be done when once your Charms are try'd : I'le pray to Cupid , tho' he's blind , that he will shute his dart , And make thee love one that's unkind and so to break thy heart . I wish the times I saw thee first had been my Burial day , Then I had ne'r had cause to cursed , nor any one to say : Ah! Jenny , thou that onst was thought the glory of the Plain , Was by a faithless Shepherd caught , and by his falsehood slave . But farewell cruel perjur'd Swain , for evermore adieu ; Unto the gods I will complain how faithless and untrue , How much like them that he was made , in every part divine ; Yet has his Shepherdess betray'd , and does his vows decline . Be witness gods I had no fault except I lov'd too well , My heart ne'r thought of a revoult , and that my eyes can tell : Let all young maids by me be warn'd , and keep entire their Love , For fear when onst their hearts are charm'd they wander in this Grove . She had no sooner said this word but down the Damsel fell , And said , goodby my dearest Lord , in whom all beauty's dwell : Then fetching of a dreadful groan , unto the winds she spoke , Bear these my last words to my Love ; and then her heartstrings broke . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . JENNY's Lamentation For the loss of her JEMMY . She wander'd up and down for Love , Till she was weary grown , Then sat down in a shady Grove , and thus she made her moan . Tune of , Jenny Gin , or Busy Fame . A Woe's me ! poor harmless Maid , my hope's are quite undone , For J [ e ] mmy he is from me fled , who onst I thought my own : Alas ! he's gone for evermore from her who lov'd him well , Who will his memory adore , whilst upon Earth I dwell . Ah! cruel Swain , that thou shou'd prove so perjur'd to thy Love , To make her wander in this Grove , like to the Turtle Dove , Who losing of her Mate , does pine , and moan itself to death ; So I shall murmur to the wind as long as I have breath . Could thou so faithless prove to one that gave to thee her heart ; Remember but the Oaths thou'st sworn that we shou'd never par You kissed my hand , and squez'd it hard , and swore and vow'd that I Should ever you of love debar , immediately you die . But Jemmy when you hear I'm gone , and that for you I dy'd , Your conquest then will soon be done when once your Charms are try'd : I'le pray to Cupid , tho' he's blind , that he will shute his dart , And make thee love one that's unkind and so to break thy heart . I wish the times I saw thee first had been my Burial day , Then I had ne'r had cause to cursed , nor any one to say : Ah! Jenny , thou that onst was thought the glory of the Plain , Was by a faithless Shepherd caught , and by his falsehood slave . But farewell cruel perjur'd Swain , for evermore adieu ; Unto the gods I will complain how faithless and untrue , How much like them that he was made , in every part divine ; Yet has his Shepherdess betray'd , and does his vows decline . Be witness gods I had no fault except I lov'd too well , My heart ne'r thought of a revoult , and that my eyes can tell : Let all young maids by me be warn'd , and keep entire their Love , For fear when onst their hearts are charm'd they wander in this Grove . She had no sooner said this word but down the Damsel fell , And said , goodby my dearest Lord , in whom all beauty's dwell : Then fetching of a dreadful groan , unto the winds she spoke , Bear these my last words to my Love ; and then her heartstrings broke . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . 