The True Lover's Paradise . Cupid with his Golden Dart Pierc'd this Youngster to the Heart ; He counts Love a pleasant pain , And his Freedom does disdain , Let other Lovers pattern take By him who'll Die for Celia's sake . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune : Or , Ah how Pleasant are the Charms of Love . AH ! how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing ? Ah! how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing ? So my Passion's still a growing , nothing but my Celia's eyes can move , So my Passion's still a growing , perfect and immortal are the joys above . When Celia did my heart surprise , every Sinew felt a pleasure ; Each kind look from her obliging eyes fill'd my heart with endless Treasure : Love , Oh Love ! is the only Treasure , joy and blessing from the grave and wise , Give me Love , and Life , and Pleasure , I shall never envy what the World enjoys . In Love I chiefly now delight , and Doting grown in me no wonder , The Darts which did me once affright , and dread me far worse than Thunder , Now are welcome unto me , increasing still my warm desire : Celia's Captive I must be , 'tis she and none but she , that feeds my fire . 'Tis she that breeds my hearts content , I am like one dead without her , If from me once she does absent , she carries all joys about her : With her looks she kills or saves me , and breeds my comfort , or my grief , In subjection she enslaves me , Celia thou most cunningly hast played the Thief . I now take pleasure in my Chains , in my Fetters I delight me , Yet sure to feel uncessant pains , if my Celia once does slight me : On my heart is her impression , adding to my passion night and day , I from Love make no digression , Celia at thy feet my dearest Life I'll lay . O was ever such a pleasant wound as my tender heart hath pierced ? Or ever such a pleasing found ? or any in love better versed ; Freedom now shall be despised , and Celia I am only thine ; His senses sure must be disguised that in his heart desires to be a Libertine . Cupid I will only thee adore , and account it clear my Duty , My reason I do show therefore , 'tis I am compell'd by Beauty Thy fairest eyes have so encharm'd me , thy selflove I must deny , And Love's Fire's so strangely warm'd me , Celia I most freely for thy Love can die . Farewell all those pleasant Joys wherein Freemen are delighted ; For they to me appear as Toys , by me they ever shall be slighted : Love's the thing that does possess me , his Riches fain I would enjoy , With my Celia , Cupid bless me , nothing then of Crosses can my Love annoy . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . The True Lover's Paradise . Cupid with his Golden Dart Pierc'd this Youngster to the Heart ; He counts Love a pleasant pain , And his Freedom does disdain , Let other Lovers pattern take By him who'll Die for Celia's sake . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune : Or , Ah how Pleasant are the Charms of Love . AH ! how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing ? Ah! how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing ? So my Passion's still a growing , nothing but my Celia's eyes can move , So my Passion's still a growing , perfect and immortal are the joys above . When Celia did my heart surprise , every Sinew felt a pleasure ; Each kind look from her obliging eyes fill'd my heart with endless Treasure : Love , Oh Love ! is the only Treasure , joy and blessing from the grave and wise , Give me Love , and Life , and Pleasure , I shall never envy what the World enjoys . In Love I chiefly now delight , and Doting grown in me no wonder , The Darts which did me once affright , and dread me far worse than Thunder , Now are welcome unto me , increasing still my warm desire : Celia's Captive I must be , 'tis she and none but she , that feeds my fire . 'Tis she that breeds my hearts content , I am like one dead without her , If from me once she does absent , she carries all joys about her : With her looks she kills or saves me , and breeds my comfort , or my grief , In subjection she enslaves me , Celia thou most cunningly hast played the Thief . I now take pleasure in my Chains , in my Fetters I delight me , Yet sure to feel uncessant pains , if my Celia once does slight me : On my heart is her impression , adding to my passion night and day , I from Love make no digression , Celia at thy feet my dearest Life I'll lay . O was ever such a pleasant wound as my tender heart hath pierced ? Or ever such a pleasing found ? or any in love better versed ; Freedom now shall be despised , and Celia I am only thine ; His senses sure must be disguised that in his heart desires to be a Libertine . Cupid I will only thee adore , and account it clear my Duty , My reason I do show therefore , 'tis I am compell'd by Beauty Thy fairest eyes have so encharm'd me , thy selflove I must deny , And Love's Fire's so strangely warm'd me , Celia I most freely for thy Love can die . Farewell all those pleasant Joys wherein Freemen are delighted ; For they to me appear as Toys , by me they ever shall be slighted : Love's the thing that does possess me , his Riches fain I would enjoy , With my Celia , Cupid bless me , nothing then of Crosses can my Love annoy . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . 