The Sorrowful Lamentation of the Widows of the West , For the Death of their Deceased Husbands . Wherein they declare their hearty sorrow that ever their Husbands was led away by fair words to this foul REBELLION . Together with their kind Advice to all people , to be Loyal to their Prince . To the Tune of , Lord Russel's Farewell . This may be Printed R.L.S. ALas ! we Widow of the West , whose Husbands did Rebel , Of comfort we are dispossessed , our Sorrows did excel : Here for their Crimes they lost their lives , Rebellion was the cause , And we confess that was their Wives , they did oppose the Laws . When Mmouth came ashore at Lime , it was a fatal day , To carry on that base Design , which did their lives betray : And many daily did presume to come unto his aid , Bridgewater , Taunton-Dean , and Frome , the Nation to invade . We said it was a horrid thing , and pray'd them to forbear , To take up Arms against their King , who was the Lawful Heir : Yet like distracted men they run , to cast their lives away , And we their Widows are undone , this is a dismal day . Alas ! we had no cause at all , our Laws was still the same , That we should to Confusion fallen , and many hundreds slave : They knew not what they went about , confusion did attend , The Heavens would not bear them out , since they did thus offend . When Monmouth did the land invade , poor men was drawn aside , To leave their bus'ness and their Trade , for which at length they dy'd : 'Tis true it was a just Reward , because they did Rebel Against their Gracious Soverign Lord , though we in sorrow dwell . Those Criminals that did oppose our lawful Government , Did likewise prove our fatal Foes , and caus'd our disconten For had they never come on shore , we had been happy still , Alas , we had no thoughts before , of any kind of ill . We might have liv'd in happy state , in this our good Kings Reign , But now , alas , it is too late , to call them back again : For they are sleeping in their Gore , laid in their Beds of Clay , Together with some hundreds more , that thus was led astray . Both young and old , and rich and poor , in multitudes they fell , Let this a warning be therefore let never none Rebel : That our most Renowned King may have a happy Reign , Then Subjects may rejoice and Sing , and never more Complain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Sorrowful Lamentation of the Widows of the West , For the Death of their Deceased Husbands . Wherein they declare their hearty sorrow that ever their Husbands was led away by fair words to this foul REBELLION . Together with their kind Advice to all people , to be Loyal to their Prince . To the Tune of , Lord Russel's Farewell . This may be Printed R.L.S. ALas ! we Widow of the West , whose Husbands did Rebel , Of comfort we are dispossessed , our Sorrows did excel : Here for their Crimes they lost their lives , Rebellion was the cause , And we confess that was their Wives , they did oppose the Laws . When Mmouth came ashore at Lime , it was a fatal day , To carry on that base Design , which did their lives betray : And many daily did presume to come unto his aid , Bridgewater , Taunton-Dean , and Frome , the Nation to invade . We said it was a horrid thing , and pray'd them to forbear , To take up Arms against their King , who was the Lawful Heir : Yet like distracted men they run , to cast their lives away , And we their Widows are undone , this is a dismal day . Alas ! we had no cause at all , our Laws was still the same , That we should to Confusion fallen , and many hundreds slave : They knew not what they went about , confusion did attend , The Heavens would not bear them out , since they did thus offend . When Monmouth did the land invade , poor men was drawn aside , To leave their bus'ness and their Trade , for which at length they dy'd : 'Tis true it was a just Reward , because they did Rebel Against their Gracious Soverign Lord , though we in sorrow dwell . Those Criminals that did oppose our lawful Government , Did likewise prove our fatal Foes , and caus'd our disconten For had they never come on shore , we had been happy still , Alas , we had no thoughts before , of any kind of ill . We might have liv'd in happy state , in this our good Kings Reign , But now , alas , it is too late , to call them back again : For they are sleeping in their Gore , laid in their Beds of Clay , Together with some hundreds more , that thus was led astray . Both young and old , and rich and poor , in multitudes they fell , Let this a warning be therefore let never none Rebel : That our most Renowned King may have a happy Reign , Then Subjects may rejoice and Sing , and never more Complain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 