The Batchelour's GUIDE , And the married Man's Comfort . A good Wife she is the comfort of a Man , If a Man be careful to comfort her again ; For Love is so rare a thing to see , Betwixt Man and Wife , if they do well agree : But where Man and Wife do's live at the Debate , They say the Curse of God do's lie at the Gate , Therefore honest young Men and Maids have a care I desire when you are married to live in God's fear : And those that are Married and has been long wed , To make much of there Wives both at Board & at Bed ; And let them be careful they do not offend But be true to their Husband to the latter end . To the Tune of , The Sorrowful Damsels Lamentation for want of a Husband . This may be Printed , R.P. ALl Bachelors now , come harken to me Both Richard and Robert and Harry truly , When you are minded a wooing to go , Observe but these words , is the best way to do so ; I'll make it appear in what I declare , In Country and City it is every where , A Wife that is loving , we may say it again , You cannot love her too much , she deserves a good Man. A good Wife that is saving every way , Will ne'er wrong her Husband , nor let things go astray When a Wife that is given to drink and to sot , Will then let fly all that her Husband hath god , Tho' he do take pains , she will spend all the gains , And junket about with other foul Queans : A Wife that is loving , But a Wife that is virtuous , and one that fears God , Will honour her Husband in deed and in word , She never will cross him not in the least thing , But will make all things well , if any anger begin , With fair Words she will labour his love for to win , She will be so obedient I say unto him : A Wife that is loving , But a Wife that's for Pride and a lazy life , She'll weary her Husband all the days of his Life ; That Man that has her has something to do , He needs go no further to find out a Foe : If a Man gets never so much , and might and strive , His Wife must give leave if ever he thrive : A Wife that is saving , we may say it again , You cannot love her too much , she deserves a good man . If a young couple have but little withal to begin if they love one another their Goods will increase , What he gets out of doors she will save within : if he be a angry Man , she will strive to make peace , When a careless Wife that is given to strife , Will weary her Husband quite out of his life : But a Wife of mild nature , may say it again , You cannot love her too much she deserves a good Man. Therefore honest young men take counsel by me , let not great Portions your hearts bewitch , For that will never make a good Housewife you see , it is not money altogether will make a Man rich ; The reason for why , I'll tell you truly , a Girl with a great Portion looks to be maintain'd high : A good condition'd Wife let us say it again , Deserves a great praise , and a right honest Man. But he that has a good Wife is happy I say , if he takes pains to labour his Living to get , She'll not spend it abroad in and idle way , she'll work the Skin off her fingers to keep him out of debt She'll give him good counsel , if he will it receive , And set him at all times in a way for to live : That Woman is a Treasure and the life of a Man He cannot love her too much let him do what he can . But young men you'll say , how should a Man know which way for to choose a good Wife from a bad ? Now I am resolved to lay out to your show , and give you directions to make your hearts glad . Take one of good carriage and one that is civil , for some are too cunning I think for the Devil : Then if you meet with and honest good Woman I swear You cannot love her too much nor think nothing too dear . Do not take a great Liar , nor one that will swear , Nor one that will be Drunk , she'll never take care , Take one that is civil and modest withal , That gives no offence to great nor to small . There is difference in Women , young men you may see If you marry a good one be ruled by me : That will be loving and saving every way , She'll make much of her Husband by night & by day . If a Man he be minded to choose him a Wife , Choose one of good carriage to avoid evil strife , And let him be careful of choosing a slut , In dressing his Diet she may poison his Gut ; But a cleanly good Women that goes civil and neat A Man needs not fear any bad thing in his Mea That Man that do's meet with so virtuous a Wife , Let him love her as dear as he loves his own life . Concluding my Ditty let all Men be wise , To make much of your Wives I do you advise , And let not your Children and them live in want , But work and take pains the same to prevent , That Man that does marry a good Woman indeed , She deserves have his love , then the better he'll speed : For where love is wanting betwixt Man and Wife , It ne'er comes to good , but great sorrow and grief . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Batchelour's GUIDE , And the married Man's Comfort . A good Wife she is the comfort of a Man , If a Man be careful to comfort her again ; For Love is so rare a thing to see , Betwixt Man and Wife , if they do well agree : But where Man and Wife do's live at the Debate , They say the Curse of God do's lie at the Gate , Therefore honest young Men and Maids have a care I desire when you are married to live in God's fear : And those that are Married and has been long wed , To make much of there Wives both at Board & at Bed ; And let them be careful they do not offend But be true to their Husband to the latter end . To the Tune of , The Sorrowful Damsels Lamentation for want of a Husband . This may be Printed , R.P. ALl Bachelors now , come harken to me Both Richard and Robert and Harry truly , When you are minded a wooing to go , Observe but these words , is the best way to do so ; I'll make it appear in what I declare , In Country and City it is every where , A Wife that is loving , we may say it again , You cannot love her too much , she deserves a good Man. A good Wife that is saving every way , Will ne'er wrong her Husband , nor let things go astray When a Wife that is given to drink and to sot , Will then let fly all that her Husband hath god , Tho' he do take pains , she will spend all the gains , And junket about with other foul Queans : A Wife that is loving , But a Wife that is virtuous , and one that fears God , Will honour her Husband in deed and in word , She never will cross him not in the least thing , But will make all things well , if any anger begin , With fair Words she will labour his love for to win , She will be so obedient I say unto him : A Wife that is loving , But a Wife that's for Pride and a lazy life , She'll weary her Husband all the days of his Life ; That Man that has her has something to do , He needs go no further to find out a Foe : If a Man gets never so much , and might and strive , His Wife must give leave if ever he thrive : A Wife that is saving , we may say it again , You cannot love her too much , she deserves a good man . If a young couple have but little withal to begin if they love one another their Goods will increase , What he gets out of doors she will save within : if he be a angry Man , she will strive to make peace , When a careless Wife that is given to strife , Will weary her Husband quite out of his life : But a Wife of mild nature , may say it again , You cannot love her too much she deserves a good Man. Therefore honest young men take counsel by me , let not great Portions your hearts bewitch , For that will never make a good Housewife you see , it is not money altogether will make a Man rich ; The reason for why , I'll tell you truly , a Girl with a great Portion looks to be maintain'd high : A good condition'd Wife let us say it again , Deserves a great praise , and a right honest Man. But he that has a good Wife is happy I say , if he takes pains to labour his Living to get , She'll not spend it abroad in and idle way , she'll work the Skin off her fingers to keep him out of debt She'll give him good counsel , if he will it receive , And set him at all times in a way for to live : That Woman is a Treasure and the life of a Man He cannot love her too much let him do what he can . But young men you'll say , how should a Man know which way for to choose a good Wife from a bad ? Now I am resolved to lay out to your show , and give you directions to make your hearts glad . Take one of good carriage and one that is civil , for some are too cunning I think for the Devil : Then if you meet with and honest good Woman I swear You cannot love her too much nor think nothing too dear . Do not take a great Liar , nor one that will swear , Nor one that will be Drunk , she'll never take care , Take one that is civil and modest withal , That gives no offence to great nor to small . There is difference in Women , young men you may see If you marry a good one be ruled by me : That will be loving and saving every way , She'll make much of her Husband by night & by day . If a Man he be minded to choose him a Wife , Choose one of good carriage to avoid evil strife , And let him be careful of choosing a slut , In dressing his Diet she may poison his Gut ; But a cleanly good Women that goes civil and neat A Man needs not fear any bad thing in his Mea That Man that do's meet with so virtuous a Wife , Let him love her as dear as he loves his own life . Concluding my Ditty let all Men be wise , To make much of your Wives I do you advise , And let not your Children and them live in want , But work and take pains the same to prevent , That Man that does marry a good Woman indeed , She deserves have his love , then the better he'll speed : For where love is wanting betwixt Man and Wife , It ne'er comes to good , but great sorrow and grief . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 