THE FOUR -- LEGG'D ELDER OR , A horrible Relation of a Dog , and and Elders Maid . To the Tune of , The Lady's fallen . ALL Christians and Lay-Elders too for shame amend your Lives , I'll tell you of a Dog trick now , which much concerns your Wives : And Elders Maid near Temple-Barre ( ah what a Quean was she , ) Did take and ugly Mastive Cur where Christians use to be ; Help House of Commons , house of Peers , o now or never help , Th' Assembly hath not sat four years , yet hath brought forth a whelp . 2. One Evening late she stepped aside , pretending to fetch Eggs , And there she made her self a Bride to one that had foure legs : Her Master herd a rumblement , and wonder'd she did tarry , Not dreaming ( without his consent ) his Dog would ever marry : O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 3. He went to peep , but was afraid and hastily did run , To fetch a Staff to help his Maid , not knowing what was done : He took his Ruling Elders Cane , and cry'd out help , help here , For Swash our Mastive and poor Jane , are now fight Dog fight Bear . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 4. But when he came he was full sorry , for he perceiv'd their strife , That 'cording to the Directory , they two were Dog and Wife : O ( then said he ) thou errand quean , why hast thou me beguil'd , I wondered Swash was grown so lean , poor Dog hee's almost spoyl'd . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 5. I thought thou hadst no carnal sense but what's in other Lasses , And could have quench'd thy cupiscence accotding to the Classes , But all the Parish see it plain , since thou art in this pickle , Thou art and Independent quean , and lov'st a Conventicle . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 6. Alas now each Malignant Rogue will all the World persuade , That she that's Spouse unto a Dog may be and Elders Maid , They'l jeer us if abroad we stir , good Master Elder stay , Sir , of what Classis is your Cur ? and then what can we say ? O house of Commons , house Peers , etc 7. They'l many graceless Ballads sing of a Presbyterian , That a Lay-Elder is a thing made up half Dog half Man ; Out , out , said he , and smote her down , was mankind grown so scant ? There's scarce another Dog in town had took the Covenant . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 8. Then Swash began to look full grim , and Jane did thus reply , Sir , you thought nought to good for him , you fed your Dog too high , This true , he took me in the lurch , and leapt into my arm , But as I hope to go to Church I did your Dog no harm . O house of Commons , house of Peers , et . Then she was brought to Newgate goal and their was naked stripped , They whipped her till the cord did fail , as Dogs use to be whip Poor City Maids shed many a tear when she was lash'd and bang'd , And had she been a Cavalier , surely she had been hang'd . O house of Commons , etc Her's was but fornication doomed for which she felt the lash , But his was Buggary presumed , therefore they hanged Swash , What will become of Bishops then , or Independency , For now we find both Dogs and Men stand for Presbytery . O house of Commons , etc 11. She might have took a Sowgelder with Synod-men good store , But she would have a Lay-Elder with two legs and two more : Go tell th' Assembly of Divines , tell Adoniram Blew , Tell Burgess , Marshal , Case , and Vines tell Now-and-anon-too . O house of Commons , etc , 12. Some said she was a Scottish [ Girl , ] or else ( at least ) a Witch [ ; ] But she was born in Col [ chester : ] was ever such a Bitc [ h ! ] Take heed all Christian V [ i ] rgins now , the Dog-star now prevails , Ladies beware your Monkeys too , for Monkeys have long tails . O house of Commons , etc 13. Bless King & Queen and send us peace as we had seven years since , For we remember no Dogdays , while we injoy'd our Prince : Bless sweet Prince Charles , 2 Dukes . 3 Girls Lord save His Majesty , Grant that his Commons , Lords , & Ea [ rls ] may led such Lives as He. O House of commons , house of Peer [ s ] O now or never help , Th' Assembly hath not sat four years yet hath brought forth a Whelp . FINIS . THE FOUR -- LEGG'D ELDER OR , A horrible Relation of a Dog , and and Elders Maid . To the Tune of , The Lady's fallen . ALL Christians and Lay-Elders too for shame amend your Lives , I'll tell you of a Dog trick now , which much concerns your Wives : And Elders Maid near Temple-Barre ( ah what a Quean was she , ) Did take and ugly Mastive Cur where Christians use to be ; Help House of Commons , house of Peers , o now or never help , Th' Assembly hath not sat four years , yet hath brought forth a whelp . 2. One Evening late she stepped aside , pretending to fetch Eggs , And there she made her self a Bride to one that had foure legs : Her Master herd a rumblement , and wonder'd she did tarry , Not dreaming ( without his consent ) his Dog would ever marry : O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 3. He went to peep , but was afraid and hastily did run , To fetch a Staff to help his Maid , not knowing what was done : He took his Ruling Elders Cane , and cry'd out help , help here , For Swash our Mastive and poor Jane , are now fight Dog fight Bear . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 4. But when he came he was full sorry , for he perceiv'd their strife , That 'cording to the Directory , they two were Dog and Wife : O ( then said he ) thou errand quean , why hast thou me beguil'd , I wondered Swash was grown so lean , poor Dog hee's almost spoyl'd . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 5. I thought thou hadst no carnal sense but what's in other Lasses , And could have quench'd thy cupiscence accotding to the Classes , But all the Parish see it plain , since thou art in this pickle , Thou art and Independent quean , and lov'st a Conventicle . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 6. Alas now each Malignant Rogue will all the World persuade , That she that's Spouse unto a Dog may be and Elders Maid , They'l jeer us if abroad we stir , good Master Elder stay , Sir , of what Classis is your Cur ? and then what can we say ? O house of Commons , house Peers , etc 7. They'l many graceless Ballads sing of a Presbyterian , That a Lay-Elder is a thing made up half Dog half Man ; Out , out , said he , and smote her down , was mankind grown so scant ? There's scarce another Dog in town had took the Covenant . O house of Commons , house of Peers , etc 8. Then Swash began to look full grim , and Jane did thus reply , Sir , you thought nought to good for him , you fed your Dog too high , This true , he took me in the lurch , and leapt into my arm , But as I hope to go to Church I did your Dog no harm . O house of Commons , house of Peers , et . Then she was brought to Newgate goal and their was naked stripped , They whipped her till the cord did fail , as Dogs use to be whip Poor City Maids shed many a tear when she was lash'd and bang'd , And had she been a Cavalier , surely she had been hang'd . O house of Commons , etc Her's was but fornication doomed for which she felt the lash , But his was Buggary presumed , therefore they hanged Swash , What will become of Bishops then , or Independency , For now we find both Dogs and Men stand for Presbytery . O house of Commons , etc 11. She might have took a Sowgelder with Synod-men good store , But she would have a Lay-Elder with two legs and two more : Go tell th' Assembly of Divines , tell Adoniram Blew , Tell Burgess , Marshal , Case , and Vines tell Now-and-anon-too . O house of Commons , etc , 12. Some said she was a Scottish [ Girl , ] or else ( at least ) a Witch [ ; ] But she was born in Col [ chester : ] was ever such a Bitc [ h ! ] Take heed all Christian V [ i ] rgins now , the Dog-star now prevails , Ladies beware your Monkeys too , for Monkeys have long tails . O house of Commons , etc 13. Bless King & Queen and send us peace as we had seven years since , For we remember no Dogdays , while we injoy'd our Prince : Bless sweet Prince Charles , 2 Dukes . 3 Girls Lord save His Majesty , Grant that his Commons , Lords , & Ea [ rls ] may led such Lives as He. O House of commons , house of Peer [ s ] O now or never help , Th' Assembly hath not sat four years yet hath brought forth a Whelp . FINIS . 