Two-penny-worth of Wit for a Penny : OR , THE Bad HUSBAND turn'd Thrifty . When he his Raze had fully run , And had repented what was done ; With Care he did amend his ways , And now his Neighbours speaks his Praise . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . ALL Company-keepers come hear what I say , Here's a notable Song if you please for to stay , It will learn you good Counsel , be rul'd by a Friend , If you go to and Alehouse your Money to spend : For Fourpence or Sixpence , you may spend I do say , If you call any higher it's all thrown away ; Then Barnaby will begin to work in your head , There's many does forget that their Children want Bred . Observe a good hour and lose not your time , If you meet with a Friend that you needs must go drink , I desire you to take this Counsel of mine , Keep Wit in your Noddle , and your Pockets some Chink : Then your Wife will be pleased , your Children glad , And a great deal of Comfort there will be to be had : But if you spend all your Money and make yourself poor , Then your rend will be wanting you'll be turn'd out of door To see some Men when they are full of drink , What a beastly condition it is we may think , That they hardly can know one Man from another , They abuse their best Friend if it were their own Brother , They'll tumble i'th' dirt , and they'll stagger i'th' street , And affront e'ry Man and Woman they meet , That when they are sober will scorn to do so , For they hardly can know their Friend from their Foe . For I my ownself have been in the same way , And wasted my Money by night and by day , And never did think how my Children was serv'd , Till Neighbours did say that they almost were starv'd : If my Wife chance to say that any thing she did lack , I would call her base Whore , and be sure pay her back : That was the best Comfort I could her afford , Then I out to the Alehouse , and spent like a Lord . I sold all my Goods , and I wasted my Store , And at the long run I was grown very poor , A hundred and fifty good Pounds I have spent , As long as any was left I could not be conten My Hostess she would be so merry with me , When I call'd in for Liquour and paid for't too free ; And with slabering and kissing she pleas'd me to th' life , Thus I like a Villain did wrong my poor Wife . At last I consider'd and did think in my mind , How to my own Family I had been too unkind , Which troubles my Conscience to think on the same , That with drinking and swilling I was much to blame , My Children was bore , and hard they did fare , And I of their Misery never took care , But now I'll begin for to live a new life , And take pains to maintain both my Children and Wife . For I to the Alehouse have been too kind , Which to my undoing I plainly do find , My poor little Children are fallen into Want , Which grieves me to see them , full soar I repent , That I had such fortune for to be so led , With drunken Companions , which caus'd me be bad , But he runs a long Raze that ne'er has and end , I'll make much of my Money that God does me send . I'll be careful of my Children , and make much of my Wife , And provide Meat and Drink for to preserve their Life , That little that's left I hope to make it more , With taking of pains , and with working full soar : And Alewives go hang themselves with what they have god , No more of my Money shall fallen to their lot ; I have sow'd my wild Oats , and I will have a care Of drunken Companions that made me so bore . It is a brave thing when Winter comes cold , To have something in store , with that a Man may be bold , Either Land-men or Seamen whatever they be , All young Men consider be ruled by me , For Hostesses and Tap-houses will fill you no beer , No longer then your Money holds out you may swear , For I my own self now do find it too true , Which makes me to speak , for what I spent I do rue . Since I took a good course and forsaken the bad , With my Wife and my Children there is enough to be had , But while I kept Drinking and losing my Time , All my whole Household was ready to pine : But it is a long Day that ne'r has and end , Therefore all good Fellows be rul'd by a Friend , Keep Money in your Pockets and good Clothes to your Back , Drink to yourselves good , but take heed of a Crack . Now in the Conclusion , that Man is well blessed , That lives sober and quietly , and foregoes Drunkenness , He never will be out of reason with his Wife , If God give him a Blessing he's free from all strife , It is a brave thing if a Man do take pains , If he works ne'r so hard if he bring home the gains ; Therefore take this Counsel I pray you of mine , It's penny well bestow'd , he that takes up in time . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guil [ tO ] Spur street . Two-penny-worth of Wit for a Penny : OR , THE Bad HUSBAND turn'd Thrifty . When he his Raze had fully run , And had repented what was done ; With Care he did amend his ways , And now his Neighbours speaks his Praise . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . ALL Company-keepers come hear what I say , Here's a notable Song if you please for to stay , It will learn you good Counsel , be rul'd by a Friend , If you go to and Alehouse your Money to spend : For Fourpence or Sixpence , you may spend I do say , If you call any higher it's all thrown away ; Then Barnaby will begin to work in your head , There's many does forget that their Children want Bred . Observe a good hour and lose not your time , If you meet with a Friend that you needs must go drink , I desire you to take this Counsel of mine , Keep Wit in your Noddle , and your Pockets some Chink : Then your Wife will be pleased , your Children glad , And a great deal of Comfort there will be to be had : But if you spend all your Money and make yourself poor , Then your rend will be wanting you'll be turn'd out of door To see some Men when they are full of drink , What a beastly condition it is we may think , That they hardly can know one Man from another , They abuse their best Friend if it were their own Brother , They'll tumble i'th' dirt , and they'll stagger i'th' street , And affront e'ry Man and Woman they meet , That when they are sober will scorn to do so , For they hardly can know their Friend from their Foe . For I my ownself have been in the same way , And wasted my Money by night and by day , And never did think how my Children was serv'd , Till Neighbours did say that they almost were starv'd : If my Wife chance to say that any thing she did lack , I would call her base Whore , and be sure pay her back : That was the best Comfort I could her afford , Then I out to the Alehouse , and spent like a Lord . I sold all my Goods , and I wasted my Store , And at the long run I was grown very poor , A hundred and fifty good Pounds I have spent , As long as any was left I could not be conten My Hostess she would be so merry with me , When I call'd in for Liquour and paid for't too free ; And with slabering and kissing she pleas'd me to th' life , Thus I like a Villain did wrong my poor Wife . At last I consider'd and did think in my mind , How to my own Family I had been too unkind , Which troubles my Conscience to think on the same , That with drinking and swilling I was much to blame , My Children was bore , and hard they did fare , And I of their Misery never took care , But now I'll begin for to live a new life , And take pains to maintain both my Children and Wife . For I to the Alehouse have been too kind , Which to my undoing I plainly do find , My poor little Children are fallen into Want , Which grieves me to see them , full soar I repent , That I had such fortune for to be so led , With drunken Companions , which caus'd me be bad , But he runs a long Raze that ne'er has and end , I'll make much of my Money that God does me send . I'll be careful of my Children , and make much of my Wife , And provide Meat and Drink for to preserve their Life , That little that's left I hope to make it more , With taking of pains , and with working full soar : And Alewives go hang themselves with what they have god , No more of my Money shall fallen to their lot ; I have sow'd my wild Oats , and I will have a care Of drunken Companions that made me so bore . It is a brave thing when Winter comes cold , To have something in store , with that a Man may be bold , Either Land-men or Seamen whatever they be , All young Men consider be ruled by me , For Hostesses and Tap-houses will fill you no beer , No longer then your Money holds out you may swear , For I my own self now do find it too true , Which makes me to speak , for what I spent I do rue . Since I took a good course and forsaken the bad , With my Wife and my Children there is enough to be had , But while I kept Drinking and losing my Time , All my whole Household was ready to pine : But it is a long Day that ne'r has and end , Therefore all good Fellows be rul'd by a Friend , Keep Money in your Pockets and good Clothes to your Back , Drink to yourselves good , but take heed of a Crack . Now in the Conclusion , that Man is well blessed , That lives sober and quietly , and foregoes Drunkenness , He never will be out of reason with his Wife , If God give him a Blessing he's free from all strife , It is a brave thing if a Man do take pains , If he works ne'r so hard if he bring home the gains ; Therefore take this Counsel I pray you of mine , It's penny well bestow'd , he that takes up in time . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel in Guil [ tO ] Spur street . 