The Wiltshire Wedding BETWIXT Daniel Doo-well , and Doll the Dairy-Maid . With the Consent of her Old Father Leather-Coat , and her dear and tender Mother Plod-well . To and Excellent North-Country Tune . Licensed according to Order . ALL in a misty morning , cloudy was the weather , I meeting with and old Man , was clothed all in Leather : With ne'r a Shirt unto his back , but Wool unto his skin ; With how do you do , and how do you do , and how do you do again ? The Rustic was a Thresher , and on his way he hy'd ; And with a Leather Bottle fast buckled by his side : And with a Cap of Woolen , which covered Cheek and Chin , With how , etc I went a little further , and there I met a Maid , Was going then a Milking , a Milking Sir , she said : Then I began to Compliment , and she began to sing ; With how , etc This Maid her name was Dolly , cloath'd in a Gown of grey , I being somewhat jolly , persuaded her to stay : Then straight I fell to Courting her , in hope's her love to win , With how do you do , and how do you do ; and how do you do again ? Then having time and leisure , I spent a vacant hour , Telling of all my Treasure , while sitting in the Bower : With many kind Embraces , I stroak'd her double Chin : With how , etc I told her I would Marry , and she should be my Bride , And long we should not tarry , with twenty things beside : I'le Blow & Sow , & Reap and Mow , while thou sha [ l ] tO fit and Spin ; With how , etc Did you not know my Father , the Damsel then reply'd , His Jerkin was of Leather , a Bottle by his side : Yes , I did meet him trudging , as fast as he could win , With how , etc Kind Sir , I have Mother , beside a Father still ; Those Friends above all other , you must ask their goodwill : For if I be undutiful to them , it is a since ; With how , etc Now there we left the Milk-Pail , and to her Mother went , And when I was come thither , I asking her consent ; And doffed my Hat and made a Leg , for why , she was within ; With how , etc My Husband is a Thresher , who is her Father dear . He'll give with her his Blessing kind Sir , you need not fear : He is of such good Nature , that he would never sin , With how , etc For by your Courteous Carriage , you seem and honest Man , You may have her in Marriage , my husband he anon Will bid you very welcome , though he be poor and thin , With how , etc Her Dad came home full weary , alas ! he could not choose ; Her Mother being Merry , she told him all the News : Then he was mighty jovial too , his Son did soon begin , With how , etc Her Parents being willing , all Parties was agreed ; Her Portion thirty Shilling , they Marry'd were with speed : Then Will the Piper he did play , while others Dance and Sing ; With how , etc In pleasant Recreation they pass'd away the Night , And likewise by relation , with her he takes delight To walk abroad on Holidays , to visit Kiff and Kin ; With how , etc Then lusty Ralph and Robin , with many Damsels gay , Did ride on Roan and Dobbin , to Celebrate the day : When being met together , their Caps they off did fling , With how do you do , and how do you do and how do you do again ? Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The Wiltshire Wedding BETWIXT Daniel Doo-well , and Doll the Dairy-Maid . With the Consent of her Old Father Leather-Coat , and her dear and tender Mother Plod-well . To and Excellent North-Country Tune . Licensed according to Order . ALL in a misty morning , cloudy was the weather , I meeting with and old Man , was clothed all in Leather : With ne'r a Shirt unto his back , but Wool unto his skin ; With how do you do , and how do you do , and how do you do again ? The Rustic was a Thresher , and on his way he hy'd ; And with a Leather Bottle fast buckled by his side : And with a Cap of Woolen , which covered Cheek and Chin , With how , etc I went a little further , and there I met a Maid , Was going then a Milking , a Milking Sir , she said : Then I began to Compliment , and she began to sing ; With how , etc This Maid her name was Dolly , cloath'd in a Gown of grey , I being somewhat jolly , persuaded her to stay : Then straight I fell to Courting her , in hope's her love to win , With how do you do , and how do you do ; and how do you do again ? Then having time and leisure , I spent a vacant hour , Telling of all my Treasure , while sitting in the Bower : With many kind Embraces , I stroak'd her double Chin : With how , etc I told her I would Marry , and she should be my Bride , And long we should not tarry , with twenty things beside : I'le Blow & Sow , & Reap and Mow , while thou sha [ l ] tO fit and Spin ; With how , etc Did you not know my Father , the Damsel then reply'd , His Jerkin was of Leather , a Bottle by his side : Yes , I did meet him trudging , as fast as he could win , With how , etc Kind Sir , I have Mother , beside a Father still ; Those Friends above all other , you must ask their goodwill : For if I be undutiful to them , it is a since ; With how , etc Now there we left the Milk-Pail , and to her Mother went , And when I was come thither , I asking her consent ; And doffed my Hat and made a Leg , for why , she was within ; With how , etc My Husband is a Thresher , who is her Father dear . He'll give with her his Blessing kind Sir , you need not fear : He is of such good Nature , that he would never sin , With how , etc For by your Courteous Carriage , you seem and honest Man , You may have her in Marriage , my husband he anon Will bid you very welcome , though he be poor and thin , With how , etc Her Dad came home full weary , alas ! he could not choose ; Her Mother being Merry , she told him all the News : Then he was mighty jovial too , his Son did soon begin , With how , etc Her Parents being willing , all Parties was agreed ; Her Portion thirty Shilling , they Marry'd were with speed : Then Will the Piper he did play , while others Dance and Sing ; With how , etc In pleasant Recreation they pass'd away the Night , And likewise by relation , with her he takes delight To walk abroad on Holidays , to visit Kiff and Kin ; With how , etc Then lusty Ralph and Robin , with many Damsels gay , Did ride on Roan and Dobbin , to Celebrate the day : When being met together , their Caps they off did fling , With how do you do , and how do you do and how do you do again ? Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 