WILLIAM and SUSAN . Tune of Black-eyed Susan . ALL in the Downs the fleet was moor'd , The streamers waving in the wind , When black-ey'd Susan came on board : Oh! where shall I my true love find ? Tell me , you jovial sailors , tell me true , If my sweet William sails among your crew . William , who high upon the yard , Rock'd with the billows to and fro' , Soon as her wellknown voice he herd He sigh'd , and cast his eyes below . The cords slide swiftly thro' his glowing hands , And quick as light'ning on the deck he stands . So the sweet lark , high pois'd in air , Shuts close his pinions to his breast , If chance his mate's shrill call he hears , And drops at once into her nest . The noblest captain in the British fleet Might envy William's lips those kisses sweet . O Susan , Susan , lovely dear , My vows shall ever true remain . Let me kiss off that falling tear , We only part to meet again : Change as you list , you winds , my mind shall be The faithful compass that still points to thee . Believe not what the landmen say , Who'll tempt with doubts thy constant mind , They'll tell thee , Sailors when away , In every port a mistress find . Yes , yes , believe them when they tell thee so , For thou art present whereso'er I go . If to fair India's coast we sail , Thy eyes are seen in diamonds bright ; Thy breath in Africk's spicy gale ; Thy skin is ivory so white . Thus every beauteous object that I view , Wakes in my soul some charm of lovely Sue . The battle calls me from thy arms , Let not my pretty Susan mourn , The cannons roar , yet free from harms William shall to his dear return . Love turns aside the balls that round me fly , Lest precious tears should drop from Susan's eye . The boatswain gave the dreadful word , The sails their swelling bosom spread . No longer must she stay on board . They kiss'd , she sigh'd , he hung his head . Her ling'ring boat unwilling rows to land , Adieu ! she cries , and waves her lily-hand . Sweet William's happy Return to his dear Susan . AS thro' a grove I took my way , Sweet recreation for to take , A charming maiden fair and gay , For her true love sad moan did make . In a sweet bower , near a pleasant green , Dress'd like a goddess , or some beauteous queen . Unto this maid with sorrow fill'd , I went to ease her of her smart . But when my person she beheld , She said , Kind sir , I pray depart . What business have you here to trouble me , Or to be scoffing at my misery ? Sweet lovely mistress of the grove , Why should I make a scoff of thee ? I do perceive you are in love , And I could wish it was with me . Sweet charming creature , show to me thy name , For thy bright charms my senses do inflame . Susan , it is my name , said she , Who am oppressed with grief and woe ; My dearest love is gone to sea , But where he is I do not know . My jewel's absence fills my eyes with tears . I have not seen him for these many years . Kind Mrs. Susan , I protest I think I knew that same young man : He has a mole on his right breast , Likewise his name is William Lamb , And if he be the same , I tell you plain , That all your tears for him are spent in vain . He is the man that is my dear , Pretty sweet Susan did make reply , You make me tremble for to hear Of my true love's inconstancy . But surely such a thing can never be , For he admires none alive but me . That's your mistake , sweet charming fair , Since I will let you understand , William is marry'd , I declare , Unto a maid in New-England . And he is raise to a high degree . Forget him , for he has been false to thee . If this be true that you have said Then all my joys are laid aside . I am a poor distressed maid , No other shall make me a bride , Tho' he is false a maid I'll live and die , But yet my heart does in his bosom lie . All happiness attend my dear , Where'er he goes , by land or sea , My love to him is still sincere , Altho' he has prov'd false to me . Yet let Sweet William use me as he will , I cannot help but love Sweet William still . I could be glad with all my heart , To see Sweet William once again , Then I my mind would soon impart To him who breaks my heart in twain . And she that is his bride I love her too , Tho' he be false , my love to him is true . Sweet Susan's Loyalty . SEEING his Susan's loyalty , Tears down his cheeks did drop amain . Into her arms he strait did fly , Saying , Why does my love complain ? I am thy William , join'd to thee by oath . Nothing but death can ever part us both . My dear , behold on my right breast , You know there is a certain mole . Let not thy heart be soar oppressed , Here is the broken piece of gold Which we did break upon a certain day When you departed , and I went away . Sorrow and hardship I went thro' When I was on the raging main , Now to my dear beloved Sue I am returned safe again . No more I'll cross the raging ocean wide , But live in pleasure with my loving bride . Susan in a swoon did faint At William's feet , I do declare . He caught her up into his arms , Soon he reviv'd the charming fair . William and Susan sweetly pass'd along To Plymouth-church , where multitudes throng . Twenty stout sailors , brave and bold , And twenty maids in rich attire . A glorious sighed for to behold . Music play'd at their desire . To accommodate the bride and bridegroom there . Now they are join'd a sweet and happy pair . Printed and sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . WILLIAM and SUSAN . Tune of Black-eyed Susan . ALL in the Downs the fleet was moor'd , The streamers waving in the wind , When black-ey'd Susan came on board : Oh! where shall I my true love find ? Tell me , you jovial sailors , tell me true , If my sweet William sails among your crew . William , who high upon the yard , Rock'd with the billows to and fro' , Soon as her wellknown voice he herd He sigh'd , and cast his eyes below . The cords slide swiftly thro' his glowing hands , And quick as light'ning on the deck he stands . So the sweet lark , high pois'd in air , Shuts close his pinions to his breast , If chance his mate's shrill call he hears , And drops at once into her nest . The noblest captain in the British fleet Might envy William's lips those kisses sweet . O Susan , Susan , lovely dear , My vows shall ever true remain . Let me kiss off that falling tear , We only part to meet again : Change as you list , you winds , my mind shall be The faithful compass that still points to thee . Believe not what the landmen say , Who'll tempt with doubts thy constant mind , They'll tell thee , Sailors when away , In every port a mistress find . Yes , yes , believe them when they tell thee so , For thou art present whereso'er I go . If to fair India's coast we sail , Thy eyes are seen in diamonds bright ; Thy breath in Africk's spicy gale ; Thy skin is ivory so white . Thus every beauteous object that I view , Wakes in my soul some charm of lovely Sue . The battle calls me from thy arms , Let not my pretty Susan mourn , The cannons roar , yet free from harms William shall to his dear return . Love turns aside the balls that round me fly , Lest precious tears should drop from Susan's eye . The boatswain gave the dreadful word , The sails their swelling bosom spread . No longer must she stay on board . They kiss'd , she sigh'd , he hung his head . Her ling'ring boat unwilling rows to land , Adieu ! she cries , and waves her lily-hand . Sweet William's happy Return to his dear Susan . AS thro' a grove I took my way , Sweet recreation for to take , A charming maiden fair and gay , For her true love sad moan did make . In a sweet bower , near a pleasant green , Dress'd like a goddess , or some beauteous queen . Unto this maid with sorrow fill'd , I went to ease her of her smart . But when my person she beheld , She said , Kind sir , I pray depart . What business have you here to trouble me , Or to be scoffing at my misery ? Sweet lovely mistress of the grove , Why should I make a scoff of thee ? I do perceive you are in love , And I could wish it was with me . Sweet charming creature , show to me thy name , For thy bright charms my senses do inflame . Susan , it is my name , said she , Who am oppressed with grief and woe ; My dearest love is gone to sea , But where he is I do not know . My jewel's absence fills my eyes with tears . I have not seen him for these many years . Kind Mrs. Susan , I protest I think I knew that same young man : He has a mole on his right breast , Likewise his name is William Lamb , And if he be the same , I tell you plain , That all your tears for him are spent in vain . He is the man that is my dear , Pretty sweet Susan did make reply , You make me tremble for to hear Of my true love's inconstancy . But surely such a thing can never be , For he admires none alive but me . That's your mistake , sweet charming fair , Since I will let you understand , William is marry'd , I declare , Unto a maid in New-England . And he is raise to a high degree . Forget him , for he has been false to thee . If this be true that you have said Then all my joys are laid aside . I am a poor distressed maid , No other shall make me a bride , Tho' he is false a maid I'll live and die , But yet my heart does in his bosom lie . All happiness attend my dear , Where'er he goes , by land or sea , My love to him is still sincere , Altho' he has prov'd false to me . Yet let Sweet William use me as he will , I cannot help but love Sweet William still . I could be glad with all my heart , To see Sweet William once again , Then I my mind would soon impart To him who breaks my heart in twain . And she that is his bride I love her too , Tho' he be false , my love to him is true . Sweet Susan's Loyalty . SEEING his Susan's loyalty , Tears down his cheeks did drop amain . Into her arms he strait did fly , Saying , Why does my love complain ? I am thy William , join'd to thee by oath . Nothing but death can ever part us both . My dear , behold on my right breast , You know there is a certain mole . Let not thy heart be soar oppressed , Here is the broken piece of gold Which we did break upon a certain day When you departed , and I went away . Sorrow and hardship I went thro' When I was on the raging main , Now to my dear beloved Sue I am returned safe again . No more I'll cross the raging ocean wide , But live in pleasure with my loving bride . Susan in a swoon did faint At William's feet , I do declare . He caught her up into his arms , Soon he reviv'd the charming fair . William and Susan sweetly pass'd along To Plymouth-church , where multitudes throng . Twenty stout sailors , brave and bold , And twenty maids in rich attire . A glorious sighed for to behold . Music play'd at their desire . To accommodate the bride and bridegroom there . Now they are join'd a sweet and happy pair . Printed and sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 