William and Susan . ALL in the Downs the fleet was moor'd , The streamers waving in the wind , When black-eyed Susan came on board , Oh where shall I my truelove find ? Tell me , you jovial sailors , tell me true , If my sweet William sails among your crew . William , who high upon the yard , Rock'd by the billows too and from , Soon as her wellknown voice he herd , He sigh'd and cast his eyes below : The cords slide swiftly thro' his glowing hands , And quick as lightning on the deck he stands . So the sweet lark , high pois'd in air , Shuts close his pinions to his breast , If chance his mate's shrill call he hear , And drops at once into her nes The noblest captain of the British fleet , Might envy William's lips those kisses sweet . O Susan , Susan , lovely dear , My vows shall ever true remain , Let me kiss off that falling tear , We only part to meet again ; Change as you list , you winds , my mind shall be The faithful compass that still points to thee . Believe not what the landsmen say , Who tempt with doubt thy constant mind , They'll tell thee , sailors , when away , In every port a mistress find ; Yes , yes , believe them when they tell thee so , For thou art present wheresoe'er I go . If to fair India's coasts we sail , Thy eyes are seen in diamonds bright ; Thy breath in Afric's spicy gale , Thy skin is ivory so white --- Thus every beauteous object that I view , Wakes in my soul some charm of pretty Sue . Tho' battle forc'd me from thy arms , Let not my charming Susan mourn ; Tho' cannons roar , yet free from harms , William shall to his dear return : Love turns aside the balls that round me fly , Lest precious tears should fallen from Susan's eye . The boatswain gave the dreadful word , The sails their swelling bosoms spread , No longer must she stay on board --- They kiss'd , she sigh'd , he hung his head ; Her less'ning boat unwilling rows to land , Adieu , she cries , and waves her lily hand . William's happy return to Susan . AS through the grove I took my way , Sweet recreation for to take , A charming maiden fair and gay , For her love sad moan did make ; In a sweet bower , near a pleasant green , Dressed like some goddess , or a beauteous queen . Unto this maid with sorrow fill'd , I went to ease her of her smart ; But when my person she beheld , She said , kind sir , I pray depart ; What business have you here to trouble me , Or to go scoffing at my misery ? Sweet lovely mistress of the grove , Why should I make a scoff of thee ? I do perceive thou art in love , And I could wish it was with me . Sweet charming creature tell to me thy name , For thy bright eyes my senses do inflame . Susan is my name , she said , Who am oppressed with grief and woe ; My dearest love is gone to sea , But where he is I do not know . My jewel's absence fills my eyes with tears , I have not seen him for these many years . Kind , lovely Susan , I protest , I think I know the same young man , He's god a mole on his right breast , Likewise his name is William Lamb : And if it be the same , I tell you plain , That all your tears are spent in vain . He is the man that is my dear , Pretty Susan did reply , You make me tremble for to hear , Of my true-love's inconstancy : But surely such a thing can never be , For he admires none alive but me . That's your mistake , sweet charming fair , Since I will let you understand , William is married , I declare , Unto a maid in New England , And he is rais'd unto a high degree ; Forget him , for he has been false to thee . I am a poor distressed maid , No other shall make me his bride ; Tho' he is false , a maid I'll live and die , But yet my heart does in his bosom lie . All happiness attend my dear , Where'er he goes by land and sea , My love to him is still sincere , Altho' he has prov'd false to me ; Yet let sweet William love me as he will , I can't help loving sweet William still . I could be glad , with all my heart , To see sweet William once again , Then I my mind would soon impart To him who breaks my heart in twain ; And she that is his bride , I love her too , Tho' he be false , my love to him is true . Susan's Constancy . SEEING his Susan's constancy , Tears down his cheeks did drop amain , Into her arms he straight did fly , Saying , why does my love complain ? I am thy William , join'd to you by oath , Nothing but death can part us both . My dear , behold on my right breast , You know there is a certain mole , Let not your heart be soar oppressed , Here is the broken piece of gold , Which we did break upon a certain day , When I departed , and you went away . Sorrow and hardship I went thro' While I was on the raging main , Now to my dear beloved Sue , I am returned safe again ; No more I'll cross the raging ocean wide , But live in pleasure with my loving bride . Susan in a swoon did fallen At William's feet I do declare ; He caught her up into his arms , Soon he reviv'd the charming fair ; William and Susan sweetly pass'd along To Plymouth church , where many do throng . Twenty stout sailors brave and bold , And twenty maids in rich attire , A glorious sighed for to behold , And music play'd at their desire ; To meet the bride and bridegroom there --- Who now are join'd a sweet and happy pair . Evans , Printer , Long-Lane , London . William and Susan . ALL in the Downs the fleet was moor'd , The streamers waving in the wind , When black-eyed Susan came on board , Oh where shall I my truelove find ? Tell me , you jovial sailors , tell me true , If my sweet William sails among your crew . William , who high upon the yard , Rock'd by the billows too and from , Soon as her wellknown voice he herd , He sigh'd and cast his eyes below : The cords slide swiftly thro' his glowing hands , And quick as lightning on the deck he stands . So the sweet lark , high pois'd in air , Shuts close his pinions to his breast , If chance his mate's shrill call he hear , And drops at once into her nes The noblest captain of the British fleet , Might envy William's lips those kisses sweet . O Susan , Susan , lovely dear , My vows shall ever true remain , Let me kiss off that falling tear , We only part to meet again ; Change as you list , you winds , my mind shall be The faithful compass that still points to thee . Believe not what the landsmen say , Who tempt with doubt thy constant mind , They'll tell thee , sailors , when away , In every port a mistress find ; Yes , yes , believe them when they tell thee so , For thou art present wheresoe'er I go . If to fair India's coasts we sail , Thy eyes are seen in diamonds bright ; Thy breath in Afric's spicy gale , Thy skin is ivory so white --- Thus every beauteous object that I view , Wakes in my soul some charm of pretty Sue . Tho' battle forc'd me from thy arms , Let not my charming Susan mourn ; Tho' cannons roar , yet free from harms , William shall to his dear return : Love turns aside the balls that round me fly , Lest precious tears should fallen from Susan's eye . The boatswain gave the dreadful word , The sails their swelling bosoms spread , No longer must she stay on board --- They kiss'd , she sigh'd , he hung his head ; Her less'ning boat unwilling rows to land , Adieu , she cries , and waves her lily hand . William's happy return to Susan . AS through the grove I took my way , Sweet recreation for to take , A charming maiden fair and gay , For her love sad moan did make ; In a sweet bower , near a pleasant green , Dressed like some goddess , or a beauteous queen . Unto this maid with sorrow fill'd , I went to ease her of her smart ; But when my person she beheld , She said , kind sir , I pray depart ; What business have you here to trouble me , Or to go scoffing at my misery ? Sweet lovely mistress of the grove , Why should I make a scoff of thee ? I do perceive thou art in love , And I could wish it was with me . Sweet charming creature tell to me thy name , For thy bright eyes my senses do inflame . Susan is my name , she said , Who am oppressed with grief and woe ; My dearest love is gone to sea , But where he is I do not know . My jewel's absence fills my eyes with tears , I have not seen him for these many years . Kind , lovely Susan , I protest , I think I know the same young man , He's god a mole on his right breast , Likewise his name is William Lamb : And if it be the same , I tell you plain , That all your tears are spent in vain . He is the man that is my dear , Pretty Susan did reply , You make me tremble for to hear , Of my true-love's inconstancy : But surely such a thing can never be , For he admires none alive but me . That's your mistake , sweet charming fair , Since I will let you understand , William is married , I declare , Unto a maid in New England , And he is rais'd unto a high degree ; Forget him , for he has been false to thee . I am a poor distressed maid , No other shall make me his bride ; Tho' he is false , a maid I'll live and die , But yet my heart does in his bosom lie . All happiness attend my dear , Where'er he goes by land and sea , My love to him is still sincere , Altho' he has prov'd false to me ; Yet let sweet William love me as he will , I can't help loving sweet William still . I could be glad , with all my heart , To see sweet William once again , Then I my mind would soon impart To him who breaks my heart in twain ; And she that is his bride , I love her too , Tho' he be false , my love to him is true . Susan's Constancy . SEEING his Susan's constancy , Tears down his cheeks did drop amain , Into her arms he straight did fly , Saying , why does my love complain ? I am thy William , join'd to you by oath , Nothing but death can part us both . My dear , behold on my right breast , You know there is a certain mole , Let not your heart be soar oppressed , Here is the broken piece of gold , Which we did break upon a certain day , When I departed , and you went away . Sorrow and hardship I went thro' While I was on the raging main , Now to my dear beloved Sue , I am returned safe again ; No more I'll cross the raging ocean wide , But live in pleasure with my loving bride . Susan in a swoon did fallen At William's feet I do declare ; He caught her up into his arms , Soon he reviv'd the charming fair ; William and Susan sweetly pass'd along To Plymouth church , where many do throng . Twenty stout sailors brave and bold , And twenty maids in rich attire , A glorious sighed for to behold , And music play'd at their desire ; To meet the bride and bridegroom there --- Who now are join'd a sweet and happy pair . Evans , Printer , Long-Lane , London . 