The Scornful Maid , and the Constant Young-Man . With mocks and taunts she does him jear , As in this ditty you may hear ; Yet no denial he would have , But still her favour he did crave : Yet at the last she granted love , And vowed She would constant prove ; Yet in this Ditty you may find , It is Money that does a bargain bind . Tune of , Times Changeling I will never be : Or , Sawny , Or , A Fig for France : ALL hail , all hail , thou Lady gay , the glory of the world to me , More beauteous in mine eyes I say , then Venus in her prime could be : One smile from thee I now do crave , If so much favour I could have : One smiling glance from that twinkling eye , Will save my life , or else I die . Stand back , good sir , what would you have your speeches let me understand , What is the thing that you do crave , do not you think me to trappan : What beauty here Sir can you spy , Hands off , I pray come not me nigh : Either a smile , or else a frown , I think will serve for such a Clown : What ails my dearest hearts delight , sweet Lady now be not so coy , Thou seem'st to be and Angel bright , in thee is all my earthly joy : Then do not seek my life to spill , But grant me love for my good will : One glance from that bright twinkling eye , Will make me for to live or die . The Second Part , to the same Tune . O Fie away , thou fondling now , my very heart thou vexest soar , I scorn such py'd-Nose Jacks as thou , pack , pack , I say , come here no more : That Maid which sets her love on thee , May say she is blind and cannot see : The durtiest Drab in all the Town , May prove too good for such a Clown . O say not so , my only joy , I am the man which loves thee dear , Thy speeches does me soar annoy , but yet thy love I do not fear : In time I hope thou wilt change thy mind , For all thou seem'st at first unkind : One smiling glance , etc Good Sir , I pray this answer take , you spend your time in vain on me , I pray you seek some other Mate , my heart does scorn thy base degree : What do you think I am so blind , To have a Clown by birth or kind ? O no , I pray you come not me nigh , For I scorn my shoes thou should'st untie . Well Lady , now if it be so , that I no favour here can have : But now by force from thee must go , some other Maidens love to crave : This Gold and Silver I will let fly , Before the next shall me deny : For all thou termest me such a Clown , I have a Year five hundred pound . This not your Gold , good sir , that shall tempt me to yield unto your will , That Maid which comes when you do call , will find you have but little skill : In this same case , you do profess To please a Maid , I do protest I see no skill that you can have , To give a Maid what she does crave . If that be all my dearest Dear , if that thou please me but to prove , Then of my skill thou needest not fear , lo , I have here what Maids do love : Here is Gold and Silver , come and see , With all delights to pleasure thee : Therefore some favour to me show , Before that I from hence do go . What dost thou think I am so found , to yield my freedom here for Gold , Or dost thou think I dote on means , Oh no , it never shall be told That money shall my Master be , Therefore come thou no more at me : Be gone , be gone , stand not to prate , For fear I break thy Clownish pate . Then fare you well thou scornful Dame , for seeing it won't no better be , Yet I must needs set forth thy fame , of all the Maids that e're I see , For beauty rare within mine eyes , No Man can win a rarer prize : If thou would yield to me thy love , I constant always vow to prove . Well Sir , if you will constant prove , as now you do profess to me , Then I do grant to thee my love , and I vow to prove as true to thee : Here is hand and heart to thee I give , And I vow to love thee while I live : What more can you desire of me , For a constant wife I will prove to thee . If it be so my Dearest Dear , thou shalt never have cause to repent , For costly clothing , with Jewels rare , I have to give my Love conten Here is my hand , my heart is thine , And blessed be the hour and time : That thou didst grant thy love to me , Come now we will go and Married be . FINIS . By T. Robins . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in West smithfield . The Scornful Maid , and the Constant Young-Man . With mocks and taunts she does him jear , As in this ditty you may hear ; Yet no denial he would have , But still her favour he did crave : Yet at the last she granted love , And vowed She would constant prove ; Yet in this Ditty you may find , It is Money that does a bargain bind . Tune of , Times Changeling I will never be : Or , Sawny , Or , A Fig for France : ALL hail , all hail , thou Lady gay , the glory of the world to me , More beauteous in mine eyes I say , then Venus in her prime could be : One smile from thee I now do crave , If so much favour I could have : One smiling glance from that twinkling eye , Will save my life , or else I die . Stand back , good sir , what would you have your speeches let me understand , What is the thing that you do crave , do not you think me to trappan : What beauty here Sir can you spy , Hands off , I pray come not me nigh : Either a smile , or else a frown , I think will serve for such a Clown : What ails my dearest hearts delight , sweet Lady now be not so coy , Thou seem'st to be and Angel bright , in thee is all my earthly joy : Then do not seek my life to spill , But grant me love for my good will : One glance from that bright twinkling eye , Will make me for to live or die . The Second Part , to the same Tune . O Fie away , thou fondling now , my very heart thou vexest soar , I scorn such py'd-Nose Jacks as thou , pack , pack , I say , come here no more : That Maid which sets her love on thee , May say she is blind and cannot see : The durtiest Drab in all the Town , May prove too good for such a Clown . O say not so , my only joy , I am the man which loves thee dear , Thy speeches does me soar annoy , but yet thy love I do not fear : In time I hope thou wilt change thy mind , For all thou seem'st at first unkind : One smiling glance , etc Good Sir , I pray this answer take , you spend your time in vain on me , I pray you seek some other Mate , my heart does scorn thy base degree : What do you think I am so blind , To have a Clown by birth or kind ? O no , I pray you come not me nigh , For I scorn my shoes thou should'st untie . Well Lady , now if it be so , that I no favour here can have : But now by force from thee must go , some other Maidens love to crave : This Gold and Silver I will let fly , Before the next shall me deny : For all thou termest me such a Clown , I have a Year five hundred pound . This not your Gold , good sir , that shall tempt me to yield unto your will , That Maid which comes when you do call , will find you have but little skill : In this same case , you do profess To please a Maid , I do protest I see no skill that you can have , To give a Maid what she does crave . If that be all my dearest Dear , if that thou please me but to prove , Then of my skill thou needest not fear , lo , I have here what Maids do love : Here is Gold and Silver , come and see , With all delights to pleasure thee : Therefore some favour to me show , Before that I from hence do go . What dost thou think I am so found , to yield my freedom here for Gold , Or dost thou think I dote on means , Oh no , it never shall be told That money shall my Master be , Therefore come thou no more at me : Be gone , be gone , stand not to prate , For fear I break thy Clownish pate . Then fare you well thou scornful Dame , for seeing it won't no better be , Yet I must needs set forth thy fame , of all the Maids that e're I see , For beauty rare within mine eyes , No Man can win a rarer prize : If thou would yield to me thy love , I constant always vow to prove . Well Sir , if you will constant prove , as now you do profess to me , Then I do grant to thee my love , and I vow to prove as true to thee : Here is hand and heart to thee I give , And I vow to love thee while I live : What more can you desire of me , For a constant wife I will prove to thee . If it be so my Dearest Dear , thou shalt never have cause to repent , For costly clothing , with Jewels rare , I have to give my Love conten Here is my hand , my heart is thine , And blessed be the hour and time : That thou didst grant thy love to me , Come now we will go and Married be . FINIS . By T. Robins . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in West smithfield . 