A mock-Song : Or , Love and no love . The youngman with this Maid would fain be doing , And very earnest was with her in wooing ; But the Maiden she was very cunningly witted , I think no youngman never was better fitted . To the Tune of , Mars and Venus . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . ALL in the Evening as I walked in the fields to take the air ; I spied two Lovers there a talking , under a pleasant shady Bower ; The youngman said sweetheart dost love me , For I vow now I am come to prove thee , if thou will be true and constant , And grant me love for love again , For I swear my heart with love is slave . Maid . Indeed good Sir you do but flatter , your compliments cost you no money ; I'de have you rest your self contented , for all you call me love and honey : For a Maiden she had need be careful , And of youngman's promises to be fearful , they'r given so much to dissemble ; And tell a Maiden a hundred lies , as many as there is stars i'th skies . Man. Alas fair Maiden your mistaken , i'le be as true as I do say : And take these Gloves now in a love token , and let us dally a while today . The time is pleasant , let's be doing , As a remembrance of our amorous wooing ; and be so civil to my question ; If thou and I can but agree , I take much delight in thy company . Maid . O Sir I see what your intent is , your a pretty man I understand ; To bring a Maiden to destruction , if she could be by you trappan'd : but hold you , for tho' your tongue runs nimble Some men they can lie and dissemble ; so cunningly that he can woo : To bring a Maiden to their Bow , But I am not one that will do so . Beside your nose Sir is so messel , you spend what should maintain a Wife , That is a sign that you will baffle , you make her weary of her life : Beside your countenance looks sour , That you can both lout , pout and lour , out of a Crabtree you was bred ; Your Vinegar face makes me afraid , I'de better in my grave be laid . Man. Oh prithee Maiden be contented , I have gold to make amends for all ; For want of beauty i'le show more fancy , thou have thy servants at thy call : Beside i'le be so loving to thee , Because I can small beauty show thee , what in my heart shall not be wanting : If thou will yield thy love to me , That we in love may both agree . Maid . Indeed Sir you I cannot fancy , that's not the thing I stand upon ; If I have a man he be neat and handsome , take your answer now Sir , and be gone : For a Frying-pan face shall not me entangle , I'll keep out of false Cupids angle , nor no golden baits shall fetter me : I live well enough if I can see , For a single life to a Maid is free . Man. Why then fair Maiden I must leave thee , God send thee a husband to thy delight , I am sorry my Crabtree face does grieve thee , a fairer may chance to have more deceit . All is not gold that now does glister , Nor all not led that does look rusty : the Trial of a man is all , If thou canst not love me another shall , You may chance to leap and get a fallen . Maid . I wish you Sir once more to hear me , I have a word more for to say ; If I should yield and you deceive me , I might repent it another day ; Therefore i'le not be ty'd in Marriage , But live a Maid in a civil carriage , a single life [ I ] hold it pleasant ; For a woman to go whither she please , She's free to work , or take her ease . And so i'de wish you to be jogging , and take your fortune where you can ; Many Maids has believed youngman's caging and by that means has been undone . For as long as a Maid she can live single , And keep out of Cupids tangle ; she's free from sorrow , care , and strife ; Before many a man that has a Wife , And lives a pleasant happy life . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field A mock-Song : Or , Love and no love . The youngman with this Maid would fain be doing , And very earnest was with her in wooing ; But the Maiden she was very cunningly witted , I think no youngman never was better fitted . To the Tune of , Mars and Venus . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . ALL in the Evening as I walked in the fields to take the air ; I spied two Lovers there a talking , under a pleasant shady Bower ; The youngman said sweetheart dost love me , For I vow now I am come to prove thee , if thou will be true and constant , And grant me love for love again , For I swear my heart with love is slave . Maid . Indeed good Sir you do but flatter , your compliments cost you no money ; I'de have you rest your self contented , for all you call me love and honey : For a Maiden she had need be careful , And of youngman's promises to be fearful , they'r given so much to dissemble ; And tell a Maiden a hundred lies , as many as there is stars i'th skies . Man. Alas fair Maiden your mistaken , i'le be as true as I do say : And take these Gloves now in a love token , and let us dally a while today . The time is pleasant , let's be doing , As a remembrance of our amorous wooing ; and be so civil to my question ; If thou and I can but agree , I take much delight in thy company . Maid . O Sir I see what your intent is , your a pretty man I understand ; To bring a Maiden to destruction , if she could be by you trappan'd : but hold you , for tho' your tongue runs nimble Some men they can lie and dissemble ; so cunningly that he can woo : To bring a Maiden to their Bow , But I am not one that will do so . Beside your nose Sir is so messel , you spend what should maintain a Wife , That is a sign that you will baffle , you make her weary of her life : Beside your countenance looks sour , That you can both lout , pout and lour , out of a Crabtree you was bred ; Your Vinegar face makes me afraid , I'de better in my grave be laid . Man. Oh prithee Maiden be contented , I have gold to make amends for all ; For want of beauty i'le show more fancy , thou have thy servants at thy call : Beside i'le be so loving to thee , Because I can small beauty show thee , what in my heart shall not be wanting : If thou will yield thy love to me , That we in love may both agree . Maid . Indeed Sir you I cannot fancy , that's not the thing I stand upon ; If I have a man he be neat and handsome , take your answer now Sir , and be gone : For a Frying-pan face shall not me entangle , I'll keep out of false Cupids angle , nor no golden baits shall fetter me : I live well enough if I can see , For a single life to a Maid is free . Man. Why then fair Maiden I must leave thee , God send thee a husband to thy delight , I am sorry my Crabtree face does grieve thee , a fairer may chance to have more deceit . All is not gold that now does glister , Nor all not led that does look rusty : the Trial of a man is all , If thou canst not love me another shall , You may chance to leap and get a fallen . Maid . I wish you Sir once more to hear me , I have a word more for to say ; If I should yield and you deceive me , I might repent it another day ; Therefore i'le not be ty'd in Marriage , But live a Maid in a civil carriage , a single life [ I ] hold it pleasant ; For a woman to go whither she please , She's free to work , or take her ease . And so i'de wish you to be jogging , and take your fortune where you can ; Many Maids has believed youngman's caging and by that means has been undone . For as long as a Maid she can live single , And keep out of Cupids tangle ; she's free from sorrow , care , and strife ; Before many a man that has a Wife , And lives a pleasant happy life . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field 