The Politic Maids Device ; OR , The Maidens Distrust in CUPID's Play . Here Counsel is to all the rest , Of Maidens fair , to choose the best ; And let the worst of Youngmen stay a while , They are apt young Maidens to beguile : But if maidens will be rul'd by she , She'l fit them in their own Degree : And make them spend their breath and strength , He should be and honest man that gain'd a Wench . The Tune is , What shall a Young-woman do with and Old-man , Or , Digby's Farewell . ALL Maidens come hither and harken a while , I'le sing you a song that will make you to smile , And be careful I say when you go to be wed , What man you do marry , and who you bring to your bed : And be wise in your choosing great comfort you'l have Or else you'r undone if you match with a Knave , Keep Liberty still maids , and be more wise , Youngmen they are apt for to feed you with lies . There's many a young man when he comes to woo , Will tell you fair tales before he does go , And call you his honey , his joy , and his dear , When his heart is as false as and old rotten Pair : But be merry and wise , this counsel is brave , Or else you'r undone if you match with a Knave , Keep liberty , etc There's many a youngman will swear and will lie , Has caus'd many a maiden to weep and to cry , And brought them to sorrow all the days of their life : She had very hard fortune to be such a men wife : Some men cannot afford their own wives a good word , Nor scarcely afford them bred to put in their head , Keep liberty , etc There's hardly a young maiden but once in her life , That has a desire for to be made a Wife , If iortune be so that she meet with a Cheat , Oh then she's undone and her sorrows are great , All the days of her life then she must be a slave , But Maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave . Keep liberty , etc But a man of good breeding or a man of good stock , If he come in good sadness will scorn for to mock , But these white-Liver'd fellows their deceit is much more , To undo a maid and to make her his Whore : Oh these are the Blades that will lie , cog , and crave , But maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave . Keep liberty , etc Young men they will promise you what they will do , I cannot deny but some of them are true , But where is that man , that a Maiden can trust , For one that is true there is twenty unjus A maid she may marry all this I do know , And's many times brought to great sorrow and woe . Keep liberty , etc There's many a good woman has been brought to decay , You cannot deny this , true this that I say : When a Husband delights more in a Whore , Then in his own wife , that goes very soar : Which troubles young Maidens that now are unwed , When a woman does bring such a Knave to her Bed. Keep liberty , etc Young Maidens be careful , and mind what I say , We must not blame all men , for some going astray , There's many and honest man in the world to be had , You must choose where the best are there's no more to be sa [ id ] If you marry a good Husband , and miss a foul Knave , You'r Crown'd with good fortune , that will be brave . Keep liberty , etc Now in the Conclosion Maids be not precise , She's a Maiden her self , that this song did devise , Young men are so false , that she could not forbear , But publish these verses for maids to take care : And be merry and wise , when your love he does crave , There's many a good woman undone by a Knave . Keep liberty still Maids and be more wise , For Youngmen are apt for to feed you with lies . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . The Politic Maids Device ; OR , The Maidens Distrust in CUPID's Play . Here Counsel is to all the rest , Of Maidens fair , to choose the best ; And let the worst of Youngmen stay a while , They are apt young Maidens to beguile : But if maidens will be rul'd by she , She'l fit them in their own Degree : And make them spend their breath and strength , He should be and honest man that gain'd a Wench . The Tune is , What shall a Young-woman do with and Old-man , Or , Digby's Farewell . ALL Maidens come hither and harken a while , I'le sing you a song that will make you to smile , And be careful I say when you go to be wed , What man you do marry , and who you bring to your bed : And be wise in your choosing great comfort you'l have Or else you'r undone if you match with a Knave , Keep Liberty still maids , and be more wise , Youngmen they are apt for to feed you with lies . There's many a young man when he comes to woo , Will tell you fair tales before he does go , And call you his honey , his joy , and his dear , When his heart is as false as and old rotten Pair : But be merry and wise , this counsel is brave , Or else you'r undone if you match with a Knave , Keep liberty , etc There's many a youngman will swear and will lie , Has caus'd many a maiden to weep and to cry , And brought them to sorrow all the days of their life : She had very hard fortune to be such a men wife : Some men cannot afford their own wives a good word , Nor scarcely afford them bred to put in their head , Keep liberty , etc There's hardly a young maiden but once in her life , That has a desire for to be made a Wife , If iortune be so that she meet with a Cheat , Oh then she's undone and her sorrows are great , All the days of her life then she must be a slave , But Maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave . Keep liberty , etc But a man of good breeding or a man of good stock , If he come in good sadness will scorn for to mock , But these white-Liver'd fellows their deceit is much more , To undo a maid and to make her his Whore : Oh these are the Blades that will lie , cog , and crave , But maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave . Keep liberty , etc Young men they will promise you what they will do , I cannot deny but some of them are true , But where is that man , that a Maiden can trust , For one that is true there is twenty unjus A maid she may marry all this I do know , And's many times brought to great sorrow and woe . Keep liberty , etc There's many a good woman has been brought to decay , You cannot deny this , true this that I say : When a Husband delights more in a Whore , Then in his own wife , that goes very soar : Which troubles young Maidens that now are unwed , When a woman does bring such a Knave to her Bed. Keep liberty , etc Young Maidens be careful , and mind what I say , We must not blame all men , for some going astray , There's many and honest man in the world to be had , You must choose where the best are there's no more to be sa [ id ] If you marry a good Husband , and miss a foul Knave , You'r Crown'd with good fortune , that will be brave . Keep liberty , etc Now in the Conclosion Maids be not precise , She's a Maiden her self , that this song did devise , Young men are so false , that she could not forbear , But publish these verses for maids to take care : And be merry and wise , when your love he does crave , There's many a good woman undone by a Knave . Keep liberty still Maids and be more wise , For Youngmen are apt for to feed you with lies . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . 