THE FAITHLESS CAPTAIN ; OR , BETRAYED VIRGIN . ALL you maidens fair I pray awhile draw near , I a tragical story have to tell ; It will make your heart bleed , when further I proceed As for the truth it has befell , In London city liv'd a maiden there , Blessed with a store of wit and beauty bright , Unto a lady fair she a servant were , And the lady in her took delight . She had a son we hear , who a captain were , A ship the Burford called , he did command , And as it was found was to India bound , And he must forsake the English land . His mother's waiting maid had his heart betray'd , He great kindness unto her did bear , Though she was poor , yet he did her adore , But at length he did her heart ensnare . Rich gold and silver bright , on his heart's delight , With some rich things he did bestow , Cloth'd her in array like a lady gay , But at last it prov'd her overthrow . The joyful day , we hear appointed were , For the marriage as you shall find , Men lay many a snare for the maidens fair , Hard it is for maids to trust mankind . The night before they married were to be , He unto the maiden fair did come , Saying , my heart's delight , go with me to night , About some business that I must have done . Unto a tavern he took the maid straightway , She poor innocent maid did think no ill , With wine as we hear , her senses did ensnare , Thus the traitor had his lusted will . But when the morning fair it did appear , And sleep her gentle senses did restore . Finding thus her charms enfolded in his arms , Down her cheeks the crystal streams did pour . My heart's oppress'd with grief finding no relief , Since a victim to your lust I'm fell ; Now my virgin bloom you've cropped too soon , All joys and pleasures now I bid farewell , Wilt thou wed me , sir , as you did say , This day you know the knot was to be tied , For ever undone my honour is gone , I am afraid I shall not be your bride . Though your charming person I've enjoy'd , If I forsake my dear , heaven be severe , May all the substance I have , be destroyed . The ship that I command when I leave the land , May it never more return again ; And then my tomb all in this youthful bloom , Be in the deep and raging main . But first I'll go to sea , e're I'll married be , To look after honour and renown . A dream she said she had , they never should be wed With many vows and oaths he from her rose , And on board the ship he soon did steer , The beauteous damsel bright went that same night , And bought some clothing then to wear . Her lovely locks of hair , as bright as silver were , She cut off that none might her know , Cloth'd like a sailor bright , she went that night , To enter at the rendezvous did go . Being tall and slim , and straight in every limb , Both dress and shape together did agree , The crew at her did gaze , the lieutenant says , Young man have you ever been at sea . No , she replied , but if you'll enter me , I soon shall become a sailor bold . 2A For I have a mind to go , where the storms do blow , And to seek for honour and upright gold . She was entertained straight , to be a second mate , And on board in a little time did go , For the Indies soon did sail away , The Captain his true love did not know . Once upon a day he to her did say , Mate , thy person does much so appear , Just like a love of mine I think many a time , When I look on you , I look on my dear . She was my mother's maid , I her heart betrayed , Now I have left her thus to gvieve alone , I wish that soon she may married be , To some other man 'ere my return . This was a piercing dart to her tender heart , With a deep sighs she from him turn'd away , Revenge you gods ! she said , on his perjured head , Who cruelly my honour did betray . Now comes the tragical part , enough to pierce a heart , Quick she found herself with child to be , This cut her heart almost in twain ; The ship's crew we hear did love her dear . Soon the lovely charming second mate , Begun to look quite thick about the waist , Forth from her eyes came many a briny tear . The Captain soon did take notice of the mate , One day as she in the cabin were , The Captain by her breast so fair , Thought indeed she might a woman be . The more he on her gaz'd , the more he was amaz'd , Perfectly he thought her face he knew , He said reveng'd I'll be , if it should be she ; Then out of the cabin straight he flew , And bid the surgeon go and call the mate , She trembling to the Captain did come , He said , I plainly see Madam , who you be , I shall be revenged for what you have done . At his feet then she fell immediately , And said do not be to me severe ; It is for the love of thee I've cross'd the sea , Pity my distress my dearest dear , You've been you know my sad overthrow , Little did I think I with child were , But since it is so , some pity to me show , Favour a poor distressed creature here . Arise and go from me , he unto her did say , See none of this matter you let be known . Soon as we can get sighed of land , I am resolv'd you on shore shall go . She said , dearest dear , be not too severe , Call to mind the oaths that you made to me , And how you did betray my virginity , The night before we married were to be ; Do not from me part in this wild desert , Drown me in the watery main , Freely I'd comply this moment for to die , So let me now love by you be slave . As thus she spoke , tears bedew'd her cheek , Earnestly upon her he did gaze , He unto her did cry , and made this reply , In these arms sweet Molly make your grave , I cannot cruel be to such constancy , But as to your distress , heaven knows best , My dearest , what will become of you , We are far from shore the billows roar , The doctor he must thy comfort be . The minister I'll tell what has befell , And we'll married be upon the sea . The men were confused who herd the news , And mov'd in pity to the charming fair , But as we hear they married were , 'Ere morning light did appear . Yet fortune , as we find , to them proves unkind , Those unhappy lovers to divide , As he sleeping were by his lovely fair , The winds blew high and dreadful storms arose . All hands aloft they run all dangers for to shun , While the swelling bosom of the sea , Toss'd them mountains high , they for help did cry , To the Lord in their extremity . At last upon a rock they receiv'd a shock , Expecting every moment for to die , The men employed thus to save their lives , As on a rock the gallant ship did lie , The woman , on the deck , she came among the rest , In the hurry overboard she fell , No one could her save , the sea was her grave , A tragical story to her love to tell . The powers did decree she saved should not be , With waves they from the rocks were driven , The storm abated were to their joy , For this happiness they thanked kind heaven , The Captain he cry'd , where is my lovely bride , Having searched no one could her see , For o ! unlucky day , she was cast away , At that he wrung his hands most bitterly . No rest could he take but sat on the beach , Earnestly of heaven he did implore , That her corpse he might see floating on the sea , To gaze his last upon her he did adore . When two days were past he spy'd at last , Her body floating on the main , Oh! Neptune kind , said he , thus to favour me , With the sighed of my love again . Now like Leander here , I'll go to my dear , Evermore within her arms to sleep , It was for the love of me she cross'd the sea , And made her tomb in the silent deep , Her love to retaliate I will share the same fate . The Gods unto our vows will all witness be , My promsse I'll perform this unhappy morn , So instantly he leap'd into the sea . Many of them strove to save him then , When too true it was the fatal hour , For the swelling wave did become his grave , They were never after seen more . Young men a warning take how your oaths you break Of young virgins do not make game , Keep your vows and oaths as you propose , Then happy blessings will attend the same . Printed and sold by Jennings , 15 , Water-lane , Fleet-street , London . ( PRICE ONE PENNY . ) THE FAITHLESS CAPTAIN ; OR , BETRAYED VIRGIN . ALL you maidens fair I pray awhile draw near , I a tragical story have to tell ; It will make your heart bleed , when further I proceed As for the truth it has befell , In London city liv'd a maiden there , Blessed with a store of wit and beauty bright , Unto a lady fair she a servant were , And the lady in her took delight . She had a son we hear , who a captain were , A ship the Burford called , he did command , And as it was found was to India bound , And he must forsake the English land . His mother's waiting maid had his heart betray'd , He great kindness unto her did bear , Though she was poor , yet he did her adore , But at length he did her heart ensnare . Rich gold and silver bright , on his heart's delight , With some rich things he did bestow , Cloth'd her in array like a lady gay , But at last it prov'd her overthrow . The joyful day , we hear appointed were , For the marriage as you shall find , Men lay many a snare for the maidens fair , Hard it is for maids to trust mankind . The night before they married were to be , He unto the maiden fair did come , Saying , my heart's delight , go with me to night , About some business that I must have done . Unto a tavern he took the maid straightway , She poor innocent maid did think no ill , With wine as we hear , her senses did ensnare , Thus the traitor had his lusted will . But when the morning fair it did appear , And sleep her gentle senses did restore . Finding thus her charms enfolded in his arms , Down her cheeks the crystal streams did pour . My heart's oppress'd with grief finding no relief , Since a victim to your lust I'm fell ; Now my virgin bloom you've cropped too soon , All joys and pleasures now I bid farewell , Wilt thou wed me , sir , as you did say , This day you know the knot was to be tied , For ever undone my honour is gone , I am afraid I shall not be your bride . Though your charming person I've enjoy'd , If I forsake my dear , heaven be severe , May all the substance I have , be destroyed . The ship that I command when I leave the land , May it never more return again ; And then my tomb all in this youthful bloom , Be in the deep and raging main . But first I'll go to sea , e're I'll married be , To look after honour and renown . A dream she said she had , they never should be wed With many vows and oaths he from her rose , And on board the ship he soon did steer , The beauteous damsel bright went that same night , And bought some clothing then to wear . Her lovely locks of hair , as bright as silver were , She cut off that none might her know , Cloth'd like a sailor bright , she went that night , To enter at the rendezvous did go . Being tall and slim , and straight in every limb , Both dress and shape together did agree , The crew at her did gaze , the lieutenant says , Young man have you ever been at sea . No , she replied , but if you'll enter me , I soon shall become a sailor bold . 2A For I have a mind to go , where the storms do blow , And to seek for honour and upright gold . She was entertained straight , to be a second mate , And on board in a little time did go , For the Indies soon did sail away , The Captain his true love did not know . Once upon a day he to her did say , Mate , thy person does much so appear , Just like a love of mine I think many a time , When I look on you , I look on my dear . She was my mother's maid , I her heart betrayed , Now I have left her thus to gvieve alone , I wish that soon she may married be , To some other man 'ere my return . This was a piercing dart to her tender heart , With a deep sighs she from him turn'd away , Revenge you gods ! she said , on his perjured head , Who cruelly my honour did betray . Now comes the tragical part , enough to pierce a heart , Quick she found herself with child to be , This cut her heart almost in twain ; The ship's crew we hear did love her dear . Soon the lovely charming second mate , Begun to look quite thick about the waist , Forth from her eyes came many a briny tear . The Captain soon did take notice of the mate , One day as she in the cabin were , The Captain by her breast so fair , Thought indeed she might a woman be . The more he on her gaz'd , the more he was amaz'd , Perfectly he thought her face he knew , He said reveng'd I'll be , if it should be she ; Then out of the cabin straight he flew , And bid the surgeon go and call the mate , She trembling to the Captain did come , He said , I plainly see Madam , who you be , I shall be revenged for what you have done . At his feet then she fell immediately , And said do not be to me severe ; It is for the love of thee I've cross'd the sea , Pity my distress my dearest dear , You've been you know my sad overthrow , Little did I think I with child were , But since it is so , some pity to me show , Favour a poor distressed creature here . Arise and go from me , he unto her did say , See none of this matter you let be known . Soon as we can get sighed of land , I am resolv'd you on shore shall go . She said , dearest dear , be not too severe , Call to mind the oaths that you made to me , And how you did betray my virginity , The night before we married were to be ; Do not from me part in this wild desert , Drown me in the watery main , Freely I'd comply this moment for to die , So let me now love by you be slave . As thus she spoke , tears bedew'd her cheek , Earnestly upon her he did gaze , He unto her did cry , and made this reply , In these arms sweet Molly make your grave , I cannot cruel be to such constancy , But as to your distress , heaven knows best , My dearest , what will become of you , We are far from shore the billows roar , The doctor he must thy comfort be . The minister I'll tell what has befell , And we'll married be upon the sea . The men were confused who herd the news , And mov'd in pity to the charming fair , But as we hear they married were , 'Ere morning light did appear . Yet fortune , as we find , to them proves unkind , Those unhappy lovers to divide , As he sleeping were by his lovely fair , The winds blew high and dreadful storms arose . All hands aloft they run all dangers for to shun , While the swelling bosom of the sea , Toss'd them mountains high , they for help did cry , To the Lord in their extremity . At last upon a rock they receiv'd a shock , Expecting every moment for to die , The men employed thus to save their lives , As on a rock the gallant ship did lie , The woman , on the deck , she came among the rest , In the hurry overboard she fell , No one could her save , the sea was her grave , A tragical story to her love to tell . The powers did decree she saved should not be , With waves they from the rocks were driven , The storm abated were to their joy , For this happiness they thanked kind heaven , The Captain he cry'd , where is my lovely bride , Having searched no one could her see , For o ! unlucky day , she was cast away , At that he wrung his hands most bitterly . No rest could he take but sat on the beach , Earnestly of heaven he did implore , That her corpse he might see floating on the sea , To gaze his last upon her he did adore . When two days were past he spy'd at last , Her body floating on the main , Oh! Neptune kind , said he , thus to favour me , With the sighed of my love again . Now like Leander here , I'll go to my dear , Evermore within her arms to sleep , It was for the love of me she cross'd the sea , And made her tomb in the silent deep , Her love to retaliate I will share the same fate . The Gods unto our vows will all witness be , My promsse I'll perform this unhappy morn , So instantly he leap'd into the sea . Many of them strove to save him then , When too true it was the fatal hour , For the swelling wave did become his grave , They were never after seen more . Young men a warning take how your oaths you break Of young virgins do not make game , Keep your vows and oaths as you propose , Then happy blessings will attend the same . Printed and sold by Jennings , 15 , Water-lane , Fleet-street , London . ( PRICE ONE PENNY . ) 