Nick and Froth ; OR , The Good-fellows Complaint for want of full Measure . Discovering the Deceits , and Abuses of Victuallers , Tapsters , Ale-Drapers ; and all the rest of the Society of Drunkard-makers : By filling their Drink in False Flaggons , Pimping Tankerds , Cans , call'd Ticklers ; Rabbits , Jugs , and short Quarterns , To the Grand abuse of the So - ciety of Good-fellowship . Good Fellows Drinks their Liquour without flinching ; Then why should Knavish Tapsters use such pinching . Tune of , We'l Drink this Old Ale no more , no more . ALl you that are Freemen of Ale-Drapers hall And Tapsters where ever you be , Be sure you be ready to come at my call , And your Knavery here you shall see . A knot of Good-fellows we are here inclin'd , To Challenge you out if you dare , A very sharp Trial you're like to find , Although it be at your own Bar. Your Cheats and Abuses , we long did abide , But times are so wondrous hard , That Losers' may speak , it cannot be deny'd , Of our Measure we have been debar'd . But now we'l show you a trick ( you knaves ) And lay you all open to view , It's all for your Froth and your Neck ( you slaves ) And tell you no more then is true . If in a cold Morning we chance to come , And bid a good Morrow my Host , And call for some Ale , you will bring us black Pots , Yet scarce will afford us a Toast . For those that drink Beer , 'tis true as i'me here Your Counterfeit Flaggons you have , Which holds not a Quart , scarce by a third part , And that makes my Hostis go brave . BUt now pimping Tankerds are all in use Which drains a men Pocket in brief : For he that sits close , and takes of his Dose , Will Find that the Tankerd's a Thief . Bee't Tankerd or Flagon , which of them you brag on , We'l trust you to Neck and to Froth ; Before we can Drink , be sure it will shrink , Far worse then North Country Cloth . When Summer is coming , then heigh brave boys , The tickling Cans they run round , Pray tak't in good part , for a Winchester Quart Will fill six , I dare lay you a Pound . Your Rabbits & Jugs , & Coffee-house Mugs Are ready when e're you do call , A P ------ take his Trade , such Measures that made , I wish that Old Neck had them all . When we have a Fancy our Noses to Steel , And call for some Nance of the best , Be sure the short Pot , must fallen to our lot , For now they are all in request . Scarce one House in twenty , where measure is plenty ; But still they are all for the Pinch ; Thus every day , they drive custom away , And force us good Fellows to flinch . Sometime a man may , leave something to pay Though seldom he did it before : With Marlborough Cholke , you his patience provoke Whenever he clears off his score . The women likewise , which are not precise , But will take a Cup of the best , Though they drink for pleasure , they'l have their measure Or else you shall have little rest . There's Billings-gate Nan , & all her whole gang Complaining for want of their endue : True Topers they are , as e're scor'd at Bar , For they'l drink till their Noses look blue . A Pot and a Toast , will make them to boast , Of things that are out of their reach : So long as a Groat , remains in the Coat , They over good Liquour will Preach . In Shoemakers Row , there's true hearts you know But give them their Measure and weight , They'l scorn for to stir , but stick like a Burr , And Tope it from Morning till Night . Then there's honest Smug that with a full jug Will set all his Brains on a floa But you are such Sots , to fill him small Pots Will scarce quench the spark in his Throat . With many such Blades , of several Trades Which freely their Money will spend ; But fill them good drink , they valve not chink Where ever they meet with a Friend . Most Trades in the Nation gives their approbation How that you are much for to blame : Then make no excuses , but cease your abus [ e ] s And fill up your Measure for shame . Printed for R. Burton , in West-smith-field . Nick and Froth ; OR , The Good-fellows Complaint for want of full Measure . Discovering the Deceits , and Abuses of Victuallers , Tapsters , Ale-Drapers ; and all the rest of the Society of Drunkard-makers : By filling their Drink in False Flaggons , Pimping Tankerds , Cans , call'd Ticklers ; Rabbits , Jugs , and short Quarterns , To the Grand abuse of the So - ciety of Good-fellowship . Good Fellows Drinks their Liquour without flinching ; Then why should Knavish Tapsters use such pinching . Tune of , We'l Drink this Old Ale no more , no more . ALl you that are Freemen of Ale-Drapers hall And Tapsters where ever you be , Be sure you be ready to come at my call , And your Knavery here you shall see . A knot of Good-fellows we are here inclin'd , To Challenge you out if you dare , A very sharp Trial you're like to find , Although it be at your own Bar. Your Cheats and Abuses , we long did abide , But times are so wondrous hard , That Losers' may speak , it cannot be deny'd , Of our Measure we have been debar'd . But now we'l show you a trick ( you knaves ) And lay you all open to view , It's all for your Froth and your Neck ( you slaves ) And tell you no more then is true . If in a cold Morning we chance to come , And bid a good Morrow my Host , And call for some Ale , you will bring us black Pots , Yet scarce will afford us a Toast . For those that drink Beer , 'tis true as i'me here Your Counterfeit Flaggons you have , Which holds not a Quart , scarce by a third part , And that makes my Hostis go brave . BUt now pimping Tankerds are all in use Which drains a men Pocket in brief : For he that sits close , and takes of his Dose , Will Find that the Tankerd's a Thief . Bee't Tankerd or Flagon , which of them you brag on , We'l trust you to Neck and to Froth ; Before we can Drink , be sure it will shrink , Far worse then North Country Cloth . When Summer is coming , then heigh brave boys , The tickling Cans they run round , Pray tak't in good part , for a Winchester Quart Will fill six , I dare lay you a Pound . Your Rabbits & Jugs , & Coffee-house Mugs Are ready when e're you do call , A P ------ take his Trade , such Measures that made , I wish that Old Neck had them all . When we have a Fancy our Noses to Steel , And call for some Nance of the best , Be sure the short Pot , must fallen to our lot , For now they are all in request . Scarce one House in twenty , where measure is plenty ; But still they are all for the Pinch ; Thus every day , they drive custom away , And force us good Fellows to flinch . Sometime a man may , leave something to pay Though seldom he did it before : With Marlborough Cholke , you his patience provoke Whenever he clears off his score . The women likewise , which are not precise , But will take a Cup of the best , Though they drink for pleasure , they'l have their measure Or else you shall have little rest . There's Billings-gate Nan , & all her whole gang Complaining for want of their endue : True Topers they are , as e're scor'd at Bar , For they'l drink till their Noses look blue . A Pot and a Toast , will make them to boast , Of things that are out of their reach : So long as a Groat , remains in the Coat , They over good Liquour will Preach . In Shoemakers Row , there's true hearts you know But give them their Measure and weight , They'l scorn for to stir , but stick like a Burr , And Tope it from Morning till Night . Then there's honest Smug that with a full jug Will set all his Brains on a floa But you are such Sots , to fill him small Pots Will scarce quench the spark in his Throat . With many such Blades , of several Trades Which freely their Money will spend ; But fill them good drink , they valve not chink Where ever they meet with a Friend . Most Trades in the Nation gives their approbation How that you are much for to blame : Then make no excuses , but cease your abus [ e ] s And fill up your Measure for shame . Printed for R. Burton , in West-smith-field . 