/ 1 The doleful Dance , and Song of Death ; Entitled , Dance after my Pipe . To a Pleasant New Tune . CAn you dance the shaking of the sheets , a dance that every one must do ? Can you trim it up with dainty sweets , and every thing as longs thereto ? Make ready then your winding-sheet , And see how you can bestir your feet , For death is the man that all must meet . Bring away the Beggar and the King , and every man in his degree , Bring the old and youngest thing , come all to death and follow me . The Courtier with his lofty looks , The Lawyer with his learned Books , The Banker with his baiting-hooks . Merchant's have you made your Mars in France , in Italy and all about ? Know you not that you and I must dance , both our heels wrapped in a clou What mean you to make your houses gay , And I must take the Tenant away , And dig for your sakes the clods of clay . Think you on the solemn Sizes passed , how suddenly in Oxfordshire , I came and made the Judges all aghast , and Justices that did appear . And took both Bell and Baram away , And many a worthy man that day , And all their bodies brought to clay . Think you that I dare not come to Schools , where all the cunning Clerks be most ? Take I not always both wise and fools , and am I not in every Coast ? Assure your selves no creature can , Make death afraid of any man , Or know my coming where or when . where be they that make their Leases strong and join about them land to land , Do you make account to live so long , to have the world come to your hand : No foolish nowle , for all thy pence , Full soon thy soul must needs go hence , Then who shall toil for thy defence . And you that lean on your Ladies laps , and lay your heads upon their knee , Think you for to play with beauteous paps , and not to come and dance with me : No , fair Lords and Ladies all , I will make you come when I do call , And find you a Pipe to dance withal . And you that are busy-headed fools , to bubble of a pelting straw , Know you not that I have ready tools , to cut you from your crafty Law : And you that safely buy and fell , And think you make your Markets well , Must dance with death wheresoe're you dwell Pride must have a pretty sheet , I see , for properly she loves to dance , Come away my wanton Wench to me , as gallantly as your eye can glance : And all good fellows that flash and swash , In reds and yellows of revel dash , I warrant you need not be so rash . For I can quickly cool you all , how hight or stout so e're you be , Both high and low , both great and small , I nought do fear your high degree . The Ladies fair , the Beldames old , The Champion stout , the Soldier bold , Must all with me to earthly mould . Therefore take time while it is lent , prepare with me your selves to dance , Forget me not , your lives lament , I come oftentimes by sudden chance . Be ready therefore , watch and pray , That when my Minstrel pipe does play , You may to Heaven dance the way . FINIS . / 1 The doleful Dance , and Song of Death ; Entitled , Dance after my Pipe . To a Pleasant New Tune . CAn you dance the shaking of the sheets , a dance that every one must do ? Can you trim it up with dainty sweets , and every thing as longs thereto ? Make ready then your winding-sheet , And see how you can bestir your feet , For death is the man that all must meet . Bring away the Beggar and the King , and every man in his degree , Bring the old and youngest thing , come all to death and follow me . The Courtier with his lofty looks , The Lawyer with his learned Books , The Banker with his baiting-hooks . Merchant's have you made your Mars in France , in Italy and all about ? Know you not that you and I must dance , both our heels wrapped in a clou What mean you to make your houses gay , And I must take the Tenant away , And dig for your sakes the clods of clay . Think you on the solemn Sizes passed , how suddenly in Oxfordshire , I came and made the Judges all aghast , and Justices that did appear . And took both Bell and Baram away , And many a worthy man that day , And all their bodies brought to clay . Think you that I dare not come to Schools , where all the cunning Clerks be most ? Take I not always both wise and fools , and am I not in every Coast ? Assure your selves no creature can , Make death afraid of any man , Or know my coming where or when . where be they that make their Leases strong and join about them land to land , Do you make account to live so long , to have the world come to your hand : No foolish nowle , for all thy pence , Full soon thy soul must needs go hence , Then who shall toil for thy defence . And you that lean on your Ladies laps , and lay your heads upon their knee , Think you for to play with beauteous paps , and not to come and dance with me : No , fair Lords and Ladies all , I will make you come when I do call , And find you a Pipe to dance withal . And you that are busy-headed fools , to bubble of a pelting straw , Know you not that I have ready tools , to cut you from your crafty Law : And you that safely buy and fell , And think you make your Markets well , Must dance with death wheresoe're you dwell Pride must have a pretty sheet , I see , for properly she loves to dance , Come away my wanton Wench to me , as gallantly as your eye can glance : And all good fellows that flash and swash , In reds and yellows of revel dash , I warrant you need not be so rash . For I can quickly cool you all , how hight or stout so e're you be , Both high and low , both great and small , I nought do fear your high degree . The Ladies fair , the Beldames old , The Champion stout , the Soldier bold , Must all with me to earthly mould . Therefore take time while it is lent , prepare with me your selves to dance , Forget me not , your lives lament , I come oftentimes by sudden chance . Be ready therefore , watch and pray , That when my Minstrel pipe does play , You may to Heaven dance the way . FINIS . / 1 The doleful Dance , and Song of Death ; Entitled , Dance after my Pipe . To a Pleasant New Tune . CAn you dance the shaking of the sheets , a dance that every one must do ? Can you trim it up with dainty sweets , and every thing as longs thereto ? Make ready then your winding-sheet , And see how you can bestir your feet , For death is the man that all must meet . Bring away the Beggar and the King , and every man in his degree , Bring the old and youngest thing , come all to death and follow me . The Courtier with his lofty looks , The Lawyer with his learned Books , The Banker with his baiting-hooks . Merchant's have you made your Mars in France , in Italy and all about ? Know you not that you and I must dance , both our heels wrapped in a clou What mean you to make your houses gay , And I must take the Tenant away , And dig for your sakes the clods of clay . Think you on the solemn Sizes passed , how suddenly in Oxfordshire , I came and made the Judges all aghast , and Justices that did appear . And took both Bell and Baram away , And many a worthy man that day , And all their bodies brought to clay . Think you that I dare not come to Schools , where all the cunning Clerks be most ? Take I not always both wise and fools , and am I not in every Coast ? Assure your selves no creature can , Make death afraid of any man , Or know my coming where or when . where be they that make their Leases strong and join about them land to land , Do you make account to live so long , to have the world come to your hand : No foolish nowle , for all thy pence , Full soon thy soul must needs go hence , Then who shall toil for thy defence . And you that lean on your Ladies laps , and lay your heads upon their knee , Think you for to play with beauteous paps , and not to come and dance with me : No , fair Lords and Ladies all , I will make you come when I do call , And find you a Pipe to dance withal . And you that are busy-headed fools , to bubble of a pelting straw , Know you not that I have ready tools , to cut you from your crafty Law : And you that safely buy and fell , And think you make your Markets well , Must dance with death wheresoe're you dwell Pride must have a pretty sheet , I see , for properly she loves to dance , Come away my wanton Wench to me , as gallantly as your eye can glance : And all good fellows that flash and swash , In reds and yellows of revel dash , I warrant you need not be so rash . For I can quickly cool you all , how hight or stout so e're you be , Both high and low , both great and small , I nought do fear your high degree . The Ladies fair , the Beldames old , The Champion stout , the Soldier bold , Must all with me to earthly mould . Therefore take time while it is lent , prepare with me your selves to dance , Forget me not , your lives lament , I come oftentimes by sudden chance . Be ready therefore , watch and pray , That when my Minstrel pipe does play , You may to Heaven dance the way . FINIS . / 1 The doleful Dance , and Song of Death ; Entitled , Dance after my Pipe . To a Pleasant New Tune . CAn you dance the shaking of the sheets , a dance that every one must do ? Can you trim it up with dainty sweets , and every thing as longs thereto ? Make ready then your winding-sheet , And see how you can bestir your feet , For death is the man that all must meet . Bring away the Beggar and the King , and every man in his degree , Bring the old and youngest thing , come all to death and follow me . The Courtier with his lofty looks , The Lawyer with his learned Books , The Banker with his baiting-hooks . Merchant's have you made your Mars in France , in Italy and all about ? Know you not that you and I must dance , both our heels wrapped in a clou What mean you to make your houses gay , And I must take the Tenant away , And dig for your sakes the clods of clay . Think you on the solemn Sizes passed , how suddenly in Oxfordshire , I came and made the Judges all aghast , and Justices that did appear . And took both Bell and Baram away , And many a worthy man that day , And all their bodies brought to clay . Think you that I dare not come to Schools , where all the cunning Clerks be most ? Take I not always both wise and fools , and am I not in every Coast ? Assure your selves no creature can , Make death afraid of any man , Or know my coming where or when . where be they that make their Leases strong and join about them land to land , Do you make account to live so long , to have the world come to your hand : No foolish nowle , for all thy pence , Full soon thy soul must needs go hence , Then who shall toil for thy defence . And you that lean on your Ladies laps , and lay your heads upon their knee , Think you for to play with beauteous paps , and not to come and dance with me : No , fair Lords and Ladies all , I will make you come when I do call , And find you a Pipe to dance withal . And you that are busy-headed fools , to bubble of a pelting straw , Know you not that I have ready tools , to cut you from your crafty Law : And you that safely buy and fell , And think you make your Markets well , Must dance with death wheresoe're you dwell Pride must have a pretty sheet , I see , for properly she loves to dance , Come away my wanton Wench to me , as gallantly as your eye can glance : And all good fellows that flash and swash , In reds and yellows of revel dash , I warrant you need not be so rash . For I can quickly cool you all , how hight or stout so e're you be , Both high and low , both great and small , I nought do fear your high degree . The Ladies fair , the Beldames old , The Champion stout , the Soldier bold , Must all with me to earthly mould . Therefore take time while it is lent , prepare with me your selves to dance , Forget me not , your lives lament , I come oftentimes by sudden chance . Be ready therefore , watch and pray , That when my Minstrel pipe does play , You may to Heaven dance the way . FINIS . 