True Love Rewarded with Loyalty ; Or , Mirth and Joy after sorrow and sadness . This young man he did walk in pensive manner Being a Soldier under Cupids banner , In loving terms he did express his mind . Still fearing that his love will prove unkind , But she to ease him from all future pain , Did cheer his heart & grant him love again . To a New West Country tune called , Oh hark my love , Or , Flora Farewell . AS I walked forth to take the Air One morning musing all alone , I herd a young man full of care Thus to himself did make great moan . My dearest dear and I must part , So sad and and heavy is my heart , It does increase my misery My love , that I must part from thee . But no leave of my love I'll take , I will but wander for her sake , And like Leander I will prove So true and constant to my love . For dost thou think I'll vow and swear And not my promise to fulfil , Then deal with me as I deserve , If I be not thy true love still . My Lands and Livings are but small For to maintain my love withal , But with my labour and my pain My dearest dear for to maintain . Thy Friends do owe to me grudge Because to thee I hear good will , But stand thou up in my defence , And I will be thy true love still . If I had Gold and Silver store , As much as ever Cressus wone , 'Twere all too little for my love , Considering what for me she's done . Now hand in hand with thee I'll go , Through mirth and melody and woe , Nay through the world I'll go with thee What e're betides to my body . The second Part to the same Tune . THe pale-fac't Moon shall lose her light , The glorious Sun shall darkened be : And Stars shall from the Heavens fallen My love ere I prove false to thee . There shall no grass grow on the plain Nor blossom bud upon the tree , All fruit shall have a deadly wound , My love ere I prove false to thee . The swiftest River shall run back The Wind shall drive the Water-mill , And the brightest day shall turn to night If I be not thy true love kill . Thus he did languish all alone And soar he was oppressed with grief , At last his love did hear his moan And strait she came to his relief . The Maids Answer . My dearest why dost thou complain And grieve thy heart since I am true , Fear not that I will thee disdain I'le never change thee for a new . Thou shalt not part from me my dear For wander in and unknown Land , A part in all thy grief i'le hear And always be at thy command . As true as ever Hero was To her Leander I will proevve . Were it to cross the Hellespont , I would not fear to find my love . Thy Oaths and Vows I do believe And plainly I thy love do see , It very much my heart does grieve That thou shouldst so lament for me . What though my friends do at thee frown And will not yield I should thee love Fear not since I will be thy own And constant ever I will prove . The Lambs shall with the Lyons play And timorous Hares the Hounds pursue , The Element shall pass away E're I to thee will prove untrue . No Snow shall lie upon the Alpes Nor flames break out from AEtna's Hill , The wild Beast shall forsake their walks If I be not thy true love still . Therefore my dear , let sorrow cease And come for to embrace my own , Which will my former joys increase For thee I love and thee alone . The Conclusion . When he had herd her sweet reply His dying spirits did revive , Quoth he for love I will not die I am the happiest man alive . Blessed be the time that my true love Did hither come to cheer my heart , Her constancy I now do prove Nothing but death shall us two part . Great joy there was when they did meet And loving Compliments did pass , And many times with kisses sweet He did embrace his amorous lass . Let all young lovers that do here This Song , be faithful to their choice . Then each one may enjoy their dear Which true lovers does much rejoice . Printed for W. Thackery , J.M. and A.M. True Love Rewarded with Loyalty ; Or , Mirth and Joy after sorrow and sadness . This young man he did walk in pensive manner Being a Soldier under Cupids banner , In loving terms he did express his mind . Still fearing that his love will prove unkind , But she to ease him from all future pain , Did cheer his heart & grant him love again . To a New West Country tune called , Oh hark my love , Or , Flora Farewell . AS I walked forth to take the Air One morning musing all alone , I herd a young man full of care Thus to himself did make great moan . My dearest dear and I must part , So sad and and heavy is my heart , It does increase my misery My love , that I must part from thee . But no leave of my love I'll take , I will but wander for her sake , And like Leander I will prove So true and constant to my love . For dost thou think I'll vow and swear And not my promise to fulfil , Then deal with me as I deserve , If I be not thy true love still . My Lands and Livings are but small For to maintain my love withal , But with my labour and my pain My dearest dear for to maintain . Thy Friends do owe to me grudge Because to thee I hear good will , But stand thou up in my defence , And I will be thy true love still . If I had Gold and Silver store , As much as ever Cressus wone , 'Twere all too little for my love , Considering what for me she's done . Now hand in hand with thee I'll go , Through mirth and melody and woe , Nay through the world I'll go with thee What e're betides to my body . The second Part to the same Tune . THe pale-fac't Moon shall lose her light , The glorious Sun shall darkened be : And Stars shall from the Heavens fallen My love ere I prove false to thee . There shall no grass grow on the plain Nor blossom bud upon the tree , All fruit shall have a deadly wound , My love ere I prove false to thee . The swiftest River shall run back The Wind shall drive the Water-mill , And the brightest day shall turn to night If I be not thy true love kill . Thus he did languish all alone And soar he was oppressed with grief , At last his love did hear his moan And strait she came to his relief . The Maids Answer . My dearest why dost thou complain And grieve thy heart since I am true , Fear not that I will thee disdain I'le never change thee for a new . Thou shalt not part from me my dear For wander in and unknown Land , A part in all thy grief i'le hear And always be at thy command . As true as ever Hero was To her Leander I will proevve . Were it to cross the Hellespont , I would not fear to find my love . Thy Oaths and Vows I do believe And plainly I thy love do see , It very much my heart does grieve That thou shouldst so lament for me . What though my friends do at thee frown And will not yield I should thee love Fear not since I will be thy own And constant ever I will prove . The Lambs shall with the Lyons play And timorous Hares the Hounds pursue , The Element shall pass away E're I to thee will prove untrue . No Snow shall lie upon the Alpes Nor flames break out from AEtna's Hill , The wild Beast shall forsake their walks If I be not thy true love still . Therefore my dear , let sorrow cease And come for to embrace my own , Which will my former joys increase For thee I love and thee alone . The Conclusion . When he had herd her sweet reply His dying spirits did revive , Quoth he for love I will not die I am the happiest man alive . Blessed be the time that my true love Did hither come to cheer my heart , Her constancy I now do prove Nothing but death shall us two part . Great joy there was when they did meet And loving Compliments did pass , And many times with kisses sweet He did embrace his amorous lass . Let all young lovers that do here This Song , be faithful to their choice . Then each one may enjoy their dear Which true lovers does much rejoice . Printed for W. Thackery , J.M. and A.M. 