Give me the Willow-Garland , Or , The Maidens Former Fear , and Latter Comfort . At first she for a Husband made great moan , But at the last she found a loving one . To a dainty new Tune , called , Give me the willow-garland . AS I walked forth in the merry month of June , To hear the Nightingale sing her best tune : I spy'd a young Maid , which sighed and said , My time I have wasted in vain , much lov [ e ] I have spent , which makes me repent , On them that holds me in disdain : Take Pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the Willow-Garland , for none will have me . I am in my conscience full sixteen years old , Yet still go unmarried which makes my heart cold : there's many you see that [ ' ] s younger then me , that suckles sweet babes at the breast that lives at their ease , and carries the Keys Of many fair Cupboard and Ches Take pity , etc Some men will give handkerchiefs some will give gloves , And some will give Bodkins , to purchase maids loves : but I like a friend , my money did lend , And never did ask it again : and them that received , in whom I believed , Have put me to sorrow and pain : Take pity , etc When William at first , come a wooing to me , Good Lord then how jocund , and frolic was he ? he clip'd me , he kis'd me , he hug'd me in his arms , He promis'd to make me his wife : but he was mistaken , and I am forsaken , Which causes much sorrow & strife : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the Willow-Garland , for none will have me . THe next that came to me was smirking fine Thomas , and like sweet William , did make me a promise , but when this young Lad , his will of me had He gave me a Judas-like kiss , so parted away , the truth 'tis to say , I ne'r saw him from that time to this : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body ; Give me the Willow-Garland , for none will have me . Then John the brave Gallant , with a Sword by his side , Came to me and told me , he'd make me his bride : but in this brave youth . I found but small truth , although he did vow and protest , to me to prove true , yet he bade me adieu , and prov'd quite as bad as the res Take pity , etc There was Richard and Robert , come both on one day , But they like the others soon vanish't away : and since that time , while spring was in prime , I have had of suitors great plenty , I dare to be bold , if they were all told , That they were at least 3 & twenty . Take pity , etc Now seeing that fortune hath me so much crossed , That all my old sweethearts , are quite gone and lost , myself i'le commend to God Cupid my friend , And to him will heartil [ y ] pray , to send me a love that constant will prove , And never to straggle away . Take pi [ tO ] ty , etc There's nothing at all that belongs to a man , But in a short warning well fit him I can : I have silver and gold , which my Father never told , I have very good clothes to my back I have house and land , and good goods at command , This only a husband I lack ; Take pity , etc , You see how my Visage , is grown pale and wan , You well may perceive 'tis for want of a man : my Pulses do beatrice , and my body does sweat , and my senses are all at great strife my belly does ache & my heartstrings will break If I cannot be made a Wife . And therefore , quoth she , some gentle body , Make me a Willow-Garland , or else marry me . At last came a youngman of courage most bold Saying , sweetheart , I care not for Silver nor Gold : but if thou w [ i ] lt prove like the Turtle-Dove , Right faithful & true to thy friend , then will I be thine , and thou shalt be mine , And i [ ' ] le love thee unto my lives end Your Servant , quoth she , my True love , quoth he , Clap hands on the bargain , and so we'l agree . And now this young woman in eas [ ' ] worser of her pain , For she never after was known to compl [ a ] in : he made her his wife , and she lives a brave life , Attired in garments most brave , and all things at will her mind to fulfil , at every command she'l now have , Her Husband is kind , they are both of a mind , According as Nature , and Love does them bind . Farewell now , quoth she , to the green Willow-tree , I have god a Husband that well pleases me . L.P. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Give me the Willow-Garland , Or , The Maidens Former Fear , and Latter Comfort . At first she for a Husband made great moan , But at the last she found a loving one . To a dainty new Tune , called , Give me the willow-garland . AS I walked forth in the merry month of June , To hear the Nightingale sing her best tune : I spy'd a young Maid , which sighed and said , My time I have wasted in vain , much lov [ e ] I have spent , which makes me repent , On them that holds me in disdain : Take Pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the Willow-Garland , for none will have me . I am in my conscience full sixteen years old , Yet still go unmarried which makes my heart cold : there's many you see that [ ' ] s younger then me , that suckles sweet babes at the breast that lives at their ease , and carries the Keys Of many fair Cupboard and Ches Take pity , etc Some men will give handkerchiefs some will give gloves , And some will give Bodkins , to purchase maids loves : but I like a friend , my money did lend , And never did ask it again : and them that received , in whom I believed , Have put me to sorrow and pain : Take pity , etc When William at first , come a wooing to me , Good Lord then how jocund , and frolic was he ? he clip'd me , he kis'd me , he hug'd me in his arms , He promis'd to make me his wife : but he was mistaken , and I am forsaken , Which causes much sorrow & strife : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the Willow-Garland , for none will have me . THe next that came to me was smirking fine Thomas , and like sweet William , did make me a promise , but when this young Lad , his will of me had He gave me a Judas-like kiss , so parted away , the truth 'tis to say , I ne'r saw him from that time to this : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body ; Give me the Willow-Garland , for none will have me . Then John the brave Gallant , with a Sword by his side , Came to me and told me , he'd make me his bride : but in this brave youth . I found but small truth , although he did vow and protest , to me to prove true , yet he bade me adieu , and prov'd quite as bad as the res Take pity , etc There was Richard and Robert , come both on one day , But they like the others soon vanish't away : and since that time , while spring was in prime , I have had of suitors great plenty , I dare to be bold , if they were all told , That they were at least 3 & twenty . Take pity , etc Now seeing that fortune hath me so much crossed , That all my old sweethearts , are quite gone and lost , myself i'le commend to God Cupid my friend , And to him will heartil [ y ] pray , to send me a love that constant will prove , And never to straggle away . Take pi [ tO ] ty , etc There's nothing at all that belongs to a man , But in a short warning well fit him I can : I have silver and gold , which my Father never told , I have very good clothes to my back I have house and land , and good goods at command , This only a husband I lack ; Take pity , etc , You see how my Visage , is grown pale and wan , You well may perceive 'tis for want of a man : my Pulses do beatrice , and my body does sweat , and my senses are all at great strife my belly does ache & my heartstrings will break If I cannot be made a Wife . And therefore , quoth she , some gentle body , Make me a Willow-Garland , or else marry me . At last came a youngman of courage most bold Saying , sweetheart , I care not for Silver nor Gold : but if thou w [ i ] lt prove like the Turtle-Dove , Right faithful & true to thy friend , then will I be thine , and thou shalt be mine , And i [ ' ] le love thee unto my lives end Your Servant , quoth she , my True love , quoth he , Clap hands on the bargain , and so we'l agree . And now this young woman in eas [ ' ] worser of her pain , For she never after was known to compl [ a ] in : he made her his wife , and she lives a brave life , Attired in garments most brave , and all things at will her mind to fulfil , at every command she'l now have , Her Husband is kind , they are both of a mind , According as Nature , and Love does them bind . Farewell now , quoth she , to the green Willow-tree , I have god a Husband that well pleases me . L.P. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 