The Loyal SOLDIERS OF FLANDERS . A New SONG , made by a Protestant Centinel of the English Forces . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . AS I was at a Merry Meeting , being in a merry vein ; Where I herd a Soldier Singing , True Blue will never stain . I have been in France and Flanders , where I have seen great numbers slave , Colonels , Captains , chief Commanders , True Blue , etc Last Summer it was Dirty Weather , we march'd through Corn with all our train We march'd and fought two days together True Blue will never stain . At Wallcor we had a Battle , for five hours it did remain , The English made the Guns to Rattle , True Blue will never stain . Little else but Smoke and Fire , could we see all round the Plain ; Yet we made the French Retire , True Blue , etc At Charleroy our Cannons Roared , and our Bullets flew amain ; We lay'd the Frenchmen in their Gore , True Blue will never stain . Not a Soldier feared Dying , though some thousands there lay slave ; Shot as thick as Hail was flying , True Blue will never stain . At length some of our men was wounded , aye , and othersome was slave ; This at all we never valu'd , True Blue , etc Under the Surgeons hand we tarry'd , till our Wounds was heal'd again ; Brave Noble English hearts we carry'd , True Blue , etc My Captain was a Prisoner taken , and our Lieutenant-Collonel slave ; Yet we'd ne'er Fight against our Conscience True Blue , etc He that strikes , he may be strucken , he that fights , he may be slave ; He that's beaten , is is not eaten , True Blue will never stain . While we in a Land of Strangers did in Camp or Field remain , We were still beset with Dangers , True Blue will never stain . 'Tis the Wars that we delight in , and a Cowards name disdain ; English Boys the best for Fighting , True Blue , etc , Let not one despise a Soldier , for he does our Rights maintain , Proving still the Lands upholder , True Blue , etc Thus we have been all Europe over , Englands Honour to maintain , And now we're set a shore at Dover , True Blue , etc For King William and Queen Marry , it need be , we'll Fight again , The mean while Boys , let's be Merry , True Blue will never stain . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Loyal SOLDIERS OF FLANDERS . A New SONG , made by a Protestant Centinel of the English Forces . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . AS I was at a Merry Meeting , being in a merry vein ; Where I herd a Soldier Singing , True Blue will never stain . I have been in France and Flanders , where I have seen great numbers slave , Colonels , Captains , chief Commanders , True Blue , etc Last Summer it was Dirty Weather , we march'd through Corn with all our train We march'd and fought two days together True Blue will never stain . At Wallcor we had a Battle , for five hours it did remain , The English made the Guns to Rattle , True Blue will never stain . Little else but Smoke and Fire , could we see all round the Plain ; Yet we made the French Retire , True Blue , etc At Charleroy our Cannons Roared , and our Bullets flew amain ; We lay'd the Frenchmen in their Gore , True Blue will never stain . Not a Soldier feared Dying , though some thousands there lay slave ; Shot as thick as Hail was flying , True Blue will never stain . At length some of our men was wounded , aye , and othersome was slave ; This at all we never valu'd , True Blue , etc Under the Surgeons hand we tarry'd , till our Wounds was heal'd again ; Brave Noble English hearts we carry'd , True Blue , etc My Captain was a Prisoner taken , and our Lieutenant-Collonel slave ; Yet we'd ne'er Fight against our Conscience True Blue , etc He that strikes , he may be strucken , he that fights , he may be slave ; He that's beaten , is is not eaten , True Blue will never stain . While we in a Land of Strangers did in Camp or Field remain , We were still beset with Dangers , True Blue will never stain . 'Tis the Wars that we delight in , and a Cowards name disdain ; English Boys the best for Fighting , True Blue , etc , Let not one despise a Soldier , for he does our Rights maintain , Proving still the Lands upholder , True Blue , etc Thus we have been all Europe over , Englands Honour to maintain , And now we're set a shore at Dover , True Blue , etc For King William and Queen Marry , it need be , we'll Fight again , The mean while Boys , let's be Merry , True Blue will never stain . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 