A Looking-Glass for a Christian Family ; OR , A Warning for all people to serve God . Good people , in this Glass you may behold the Joy and Comfort are in , the wicked be - ing accursed for evermore : Likewise the great cause the lord sends such soar judge - ments among us for our Sins and Wickedness , and worse he will send if we repent not in time . The Tune is , Aim not too High . My Gold is my God . ALL you that fear the Lord that rules the sky , And fear his Holy Name that sits on high : Do but observe these lines which I have pen'd , I hope 'twill be a means your Lives to amend . You see that Charity is fled and gone , And Love and Unity is left alone : Whereas plain-dealing us'd to bear the sway , Deceit and Cozening it hath god the day . O is it not a grievous sighed to see , The Son against the Father for to be : The Daughter curse and ban her Mother dear , To bring her up she always took great care . This is the cause this Land is punished before , And still I doubt it will be more and more : The Lord his judgments he does on us send , Because we don't our wicked lives amend . Do you not see in Town and City too , How Men and Women's hearts are full of Woe , Soar sick dear friends , Oh this is all their cry , Praying to God to ease their misery . The burning Fever , and pain i'th head is chief , And gripping in the Belly is all their grief : No easement can be had for it , nor cure , But still poor souls the same they must endure . Therefore good people all both night and day , Unto the Lord on our knees let us pray : That he would be pleas'd to ease their pain , And grant them to their former health again . O England , England , whither wilt thou high ? Thy sins to God for vengeance they do cry : Thy Pride and Whoredom thou seek'st to maintain And the true Word of God dost still refrain . O silly Soul , where will thy Pride become ? When as grim Death appears to strike thee home ? Then thy Rich Jewels and thy brave attire , Will be but Fuel for Eternal Fire . Then thou wilt curse the Pride that did thee wrong , And wish thou'st died when thou hadst been young : But all'd too late , and vain be sure 'twill be , To call for help to ease thy misery . WHen thou dost on thy bed of languish lie : Against thee then thy conscience it will cry ; And witness all the sins thou hast commit , Make thee appear for Heaven much unfit . Then from thy Gold and Silver thou must part , Though thou dost leave it with a heavy hear But when Death comes thou must not put him by Nothing so sure that one day thou must die . Children see , your Parants do obey , So Heaven will protect you night and day : Servants be just to those your Master's be , Then God will surely bless you , you shall see It grieves my Heart and Soul to see ? How young Children to cursing given be : Those that can scarcely yet speak one word plain , Yet they can take the Name of God in vain . But all you that are Mother's meek and mild , Do not you spare the rod to spoil the Child : Apply the twigs before they stubborn stand , Lest at last you can't bend them with your hand . Uphold not Children Neighbours for to wrong , But look unto their ways in hand and tongue : Let him be first a Liar , he'l turn Thief , Then thou'lt repent , when there is no relief . Then silly Soul why wilt not thou amend ? Knowing that all things once will have and end : All Worldly pleasures are but vanity ; None knows but that tomorrow we must die . The Glutton shall with hunger pine away , Drunkards the more they thirst , the more they may Swearers , and those that do delight therein ; Be sure in Heaven shall never favour win . The Usurer and those that grind the poor Are like to have a judgement very soar : He that does seek the Widows overthrow , Will one day repent that ever he did doe so . But he that relieves the widow and fatherless ; At the years end will never have the less : What thou dost give unto the blind or lame , The Lord he will restore to thee again . Suppose that thou hadst thousands lying by ? And thou wast sick and full of misery : Wouldst thou not give it all some ease to have ? But mind , Oh man , 'tis not Gold thy life can save , And some so proud and lofty they are grown , That a poor man in heart they scorn to own : Because their Riches that will fade away , And both their Beds must be a clod of Clay . These things my Friends see that you do observe , And from the Word of God be sure don't swerve : For fear you should repent when 'tis too late , When you shall ask God mercy at his gate . Thus Christian friends you hear in every thing , The difference between a wicked and good thing : He that fears the Lord a blessed man is he , But for the Wicked Damned shall he be . FINIS . London , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Looking-Glass for a Christian Family ; OR , A Warning for all people to serve God . Good people , in this Glass you may behold the Joy and Comfort are in , the wicked be - ing accursed for evermore : Likewise the great cause the lord sends such soar judge - ments among us for our Sins and Wickedness , and worse he will send if we repent not in time . The Tune is , Aim not too High . My Gold is my God . ALL you that fear the Lord that rules the sky , And fear his Holy Name that sits on high : Do but observe these lines which I have pen'd , I hope 'twill be a means your Lives to amend . You see that Charity is fled and gone , And Love and Unity is left alone : Whereas plain-dealing us'd to bear the sway , Deceit and Cozening it hath god the day . O is it not a grievous sighed to see , The Son against the Father for to be : The Daughter curse and ban her Mother dear , To bring her up she always took great care . This is the cause this Land is punished before , And still I doubt it will be more and more : The Lord his judgments he does on us send , Because we don't our wicked lives amend . Do you not see in Town and City too , How Men and Women's hearts are full of Woe , Soar sick dear friends , Oh this is all their cry , Praying to God to ease their misery . The burning Fever , and pain i'th head is chief , And gripping in the Belly is all their grief : No easement can be had for it , nor cure , But still poor souls the same they must endure . Therefore good people all both night and day , Unto the Lord on our knees let us pray : That he would be pleas'd to ease their pain , And grant them to their former health again . O England , England , whither wilt thou high ? Thy sins to God for vengeance they do cry : Thy Pride and Whoredom thou seek'st to maintain And the true Word of God dost still refrain . O silly Soul , where will thy Pride become ? When as grim Death appears to strike thee home ? Then thy Rich Jewels and thy brave attire , Will be but Fuel for Eternal Fire . Then thou wilt curse the Pride that did thee wrong , And wish thou'st died when thou hadst been young : But all'd too late , and vain be sure 'twill be , To call for help to ease thy misery . WHen thou dost on thy bed of languish lie : Against thee then thy conscience it will cry ; And witness all the sins thou hast commit , Make thee appear for Heaven much unfit . Then from thy Gold and Silver thou must part , Though thou dost leave it with a heavy hear But when Death comes thou must not put him by Nothing so sure that one day thou must die . Children see , your Parants do obey , So Heaven will protect you night and day : Servants be just to those your Master's be , Then God will surely bless you , you shall see It grieves my Heart and Soul to see ? How young Children to cursing given be : Those that can scarcely yet speak one word plain , Yet they can take the Name of God in vain . But all you that are Mother's meek and mild , Do not you spare the rod to spoil the Child : Apply the twigs before they stubborn stand , Lest at last you can't bend them with your hand . Uphold not Children Neighbours for to wrong , But look unto their ways in hand and tongue : Let him be first a Liar , he'l turn Thief , Then thou'lt repent , when there is no relief . Then silly Soul why wilt not thou amend ? Knowing that all things once will have and end : All Worldly pleasures are but vanity ; None knows but that tomorrow we must die . The Glutton shall with hunger pine away , Drunkards the more they thirst , the more they may Swearers , and those that do delight therein ; Be sure in Heaven shall never favour win . The Usurer and those that grind the poor Are like to have a judgement very soar : He that does seek the Widows overthrow , Will one day repent that ever he did doe so . But he that relieves the widow and fatherless ; At the years end will never have the less : What thou dost give unto the blind or lame , The Lord he will restore to thee again . Suppose that thou hadst thousands lying by ? And thou wast sick and full of misery : Wouldst thou not give it all some ease to have ? But mind , Oh man , 'tis not Gold thy life can save , And some so proud and lofty they are grown , That a poor man in heart they scorn to own : Because their Riches that will fade away , And both their Beds must be a clod of Clay . These things my Friends see that you do observe , And from the Word of God be sure don't swerve : For fear you should repent when 'tis too late , When you shall ask God mercy at his gate . Thus Christian friends you hear in every thing , The difference between a wicked and good thing : He that fears the Lord a blessed man is he , But for the Wicked Damned shall he be . FINIS . London , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 