The Fair Maid of Dunsmore's Lamentation . Occasioned by Lord Wigmore , once Governor of Warwick-Castle . Being a full and true Relation , how Lord Wigmore enticed the fair Isabel of Dunsmore , in War - wick-shire , a Shepherd's daughter , to his Bed ; she afterwards perceiving her self to be with child by him , rather than she would undergo the vulgar disgrace among her Friends , did stab herself , and died immediately . Tune of , Troy Town . With Allowance . ALL you that ever herd the Name of Wigmore that renowned Lord , Who once had gain'd a Glorious Fame , but lost it of his own accord , A lustful love did cause her woe , Which did his Honour overthrow . The King had made him Governor , of Warwick-castle where he dwelled , Not long , but quickly herd of her , whose name to name my heart does mell A lustful love , etc Fair Isabel they did her call , a Shepherds Daughter fair and bright , Which caus'd this man of might to fallen in love with her at the first sighs A lustful love , etc Lord Wigmore on a Summer's day , with his own Servant walked the field , By a small River they took their way , whose murmuring currant did pleasure yield , But a lustful love etc They had not walked very far , but easily they might espy , Fair Isabels body to appear , a washing of her self just by : A lustful love , etc She in the silver Stream alone , was washing of her milkwhite skin , But had she her misfortunes known , she would not in that place have been : A lustful love , etc The more he looked the more he lov'd , till looking did for actium call , With flames of lust his heart was mov'd , to work her ruin and his fallen . A lustful love , etc Thus viewing her with burning pain , he could no longer there abide , But to his castle returns again , and there would fain his passion hide . But lustful love , etc But all in vain the more he strove , from lovesick fancies to retire , The more he burned in lustful love , and Isabel must quench the fire : A lustful love , etc A Trusty servant forth he sends , to bring her to him without delay , Resolving for to have his ends , and quickly too , he could not stay , A lustful love , etc The Servant goes at his command , and vows he will not be deny'd , There did he spy fair Isabel stand , just dressed by the River side , A lustful love , etc The Servant told her courteously , his Lord desired her for to come , For he must speak with her instantly , she grants and went into his Room , A lustful love , etc Lord Wigmore fell upon his knees , and beg'd to him she would be kind , Crying Isabel my dear , none sees , blush not my sweetest , love is blind . A lustful love , etc Her innocence was overcome , o pity 'twas she was beguiled , She afterwards returned home , and from that time conceiv'd with child . A lustful love did cause her woe , Which did his Honour overthrow . Fair Isabells mournful Recantation , AT Dunsmore the fair Isabel , near unto Warwick that brave town , There 'twas she mournfully did dwell , repenting what was yet unknown . With sighs she cries Heaven pity me , Lord Wigmore this is long of thee . Quoth she alas what shall I do , or unto whom shall I make my moan , Each day and hour increase my woe , and yet I dare not make it known , With sighs , etc O , that I had ne'r been born , and being born had died just then , Each Virgin will hold me in scorn , and shall be scoff'd by all youngmen , With sighs , etc At six months end she could perceive , her belly swelled and big did grow , The Babe within her womb did strive , and friends began the cause to know , With sighs , etc Poor Isabel distressed with grief , laments her folly , but too late ; Instead of giving her Relief , her friends do prosecute their hate , With sighs , etc But she not able to endure , their anger and her own disgrace , Resolves to find a speedy cure , in some convenient private place , With sighs , etc With this sad resolution bent , she takes a Dagger in her hand , 'Twil make a heart of stone relent , the truth of this to understand , With sighs , etc She prays that heaven would her forgive , then to her heart her Dagger sent , And down she dropped , let those that live , take care betimes , and all Repent , At last she cry'd , etc Lord Wigmore hearing of this , he never more had quiet rest , His guilty heart did in him bleed , and privately his sins confessed , Fair Isabel forgive , and I , Will pine with sorrow till I die . I must confess I did thee wrong , and openly will it proclaim , Let all-young men that hear this song , take care they ne'r commit the same . Fair Isabel , etc And when I am dead , and blood is cold , to show my dear I lov'd thee well ; One Tomb shall both our bodies hold , such is my love for Isabel . Fair Saint forgive my crime and I Will pine with sorrow till I die . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thank - ray , and T. Passenger . The Fair Maid of Dunsmore's Lamentation . Occasioned by Lord Wigmore , once Governor of Warwick-Castle . Being a full and true Relation , how Lord Wigmore enticed the fair Isabel of Dunsmore , in War - wick-shire , a Shepherd's daughter , to his Bed ; she afterwards perceiving her self to be with child by him , rather than she would undergo the vulgar disgrace among her Friends , did stab herself , and died immediately . Tune of , Troy Town . With Allowance . ALL you that ever herd the Name of Wigmore that renowned Lord , Who once had gain'd a Glorious Fame , but lost it of his own accord , A lustful love did cause her woe , Which did his Honour overthrow . The King had made him Governor , of Warwick-castle where he dwelled , Not long , but quickly herd of her , whose name to name my heart does mell A lustful love , etc Fair Isabel they did her call , a Shepherds Daughter fair and bright , Which caus'd this man of might to fallen in love with her at the first sighs A lustful love , etc Lord Wigmore on a Summer's day , with his own Servant walked the field , By a small River they took their way , whose murmuring currant did pleasure yield , But a lustful love etc They had not walked very far , but easily they might espy , Fair Isabels body to appear , a washing of her self just by : A lustful love , etc She in the silver Stream alone , was washing of her milkwhite skin , But had she her misfortunes known , she would not in that place have been : A lustful love , etc The more he looked the more he lov'd , till looking did for actium call , With flames of lust his heart was mov'd , to work her ruin and his fallen . A lustful love , etc Thus viewing her with burning pain , he could no longer there abide , But to his castle returns again , and there would fain his passion hide . But lustful love , etc But all in vain the more he strove , from lovesick fancies to retire , The more he burned in lustful love , and Isabel must quench the fire : A lustful love , etc A Trusty servant forth he sends , to bring her to him without delay , Resolving for to have his ends , and quickly too , he could not stay , A lustful love , etc The Servant goes at his command , and vows he will not be deny'd , There did he spy fair Isabel stand , just dressed by the River side , A lustful love , etc The Servant told her courteously , his Lord desired her for to come , For he must speak with her instantly , she grants and went into his Room , A lustful love , etc Lord Wigmore fell upon his knees , and beg'd to him she would be kind , Crying Isabel my dear , none sees , blush not my sweetest , love is blind . A lustful love , etc Her innocence was overcome , o pity 'twas she was beguiled , She afterwards returned home , and from that time conceiv'd with child . A lustful love did cause her woe , Which did his Honour overthrow . Fair Isabells mournful Recantation , AT Dunsmore the fair Isabel , near unto Warwick that brave town , There 'twas she mournfully did dwell , repenting what was yet unknown . With sighs she cries Heaven pity me , Lord Wigmore this is long of thee . Quoth she alas what shall I do , or unto whom shall I make my moan , Each day and hour increase my woe , and yet I dare not make it known , With sighs , etc O , that I had ne'r been born , and being born had died just then , Each Virgin will hold me in scorn , and shall be scoff'd by all youngmen , With sighs , etc At six months end she could perceive , her belly swelled and big did grow , The Babe within her womb did strive , and friends began the cause to know , With sighs , etc Poor Isabel distressed with grief , laments her folly , but too late ; Instead of giving her Relief , her friends do prosecute their hate , With sighs , etc But she not able to endure , their anger and her own disgrace , Resolves to find a speedy cure , in some convenient private place , With sighs , etc With this sad resolution bent , she takes a Dagger in her hand , 'Twil make a heart of stone relent , the truth of this to understand , With sighs , etc She prays that heaven would her forgive , then to her heart her Dagger sent , And down she dropped , let those that live , take care betimes , and all Repent , At last she cry'd , etc Lord Wigmore hearing of this , he never more had quiet rest , His guilty heart did in him bleed , and privately his sins confessed , Fair Isabel forgive , and I , Will pine with sorrow till I die . I must confess I did thee wrong , and openly will it proclaim , Let all-young men that hear this song , take care they ne'r commit the same . Fair Isabel , etc And when I am dead , and blood is cold , to show my dear I lov'd thee well ; One Tomb shall both our bodies hold , such is my love for Isabel . Fair Saint forgive my crime and I Will pine with sorrow till I die . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thank - ray , and T. Passenger . 