The London Damsels fate by unjust Tyranny : Or , the Rash Lover . Being a Relation of a handsome maid that was lately through the Tyranny of her Parents , forced from her dearest , to one whom she hated , her Love for sorrow dies , she being distracted through grief and envy , first drinks poison , and then stabs herself , and died in great Desolation . Tune of Troy Town , ALl you that unto marriage tend , and give your hearts unto the fate , As maidens hearts that way do bend , listen to what I shall relate ; Where unjust choice through Tyranny , did bring this maid to misery . She lov'd a youngman passing well , whose youth and fortune did advance Both Spain and Holland as men tell , and eke the glorious Court of France ; But as her Love she oft applied , her Parents crossness still deny'd . Yet she insisted in her Love ; and to her dearest gave her Heart , Protesting still that death should prove her mortal soul e'r she would par Never did Turtles more invest a constancy in each ones breast . She often clasp't about his Neck her Crystal Arms , as Lovers do , But little thought those signs a check to bring her kindness unto woe : Till peevish Parents by their will those tender hope's of joy did kill . Her Lover us'd to make great moan , saying , if she were ever fled , His would then be left alone , and in short space of time be dead : That such departing once away would quickly bring his fatal day . No sooner had these Lovers gave each others hands and hearts also , But her cross mother brings a slave whom she would have her married to , Crossing her love to please her will , because she would her mind fulfil . Her Parents still made no delay to hasten her unto their choice , But what she proffer'd they cried nay , and made it go by th' major voice : Forcing her to be made a wife to whom she ne'r lov'd in her life . Alas she cry'd her heart she had given unto her dearest love and joy , Wishing a thousand times to Heaven and Mother , that they'd not destroy So dear a heart and force her mind to whom she ne'r could passion find . Those sighs and tears could not prevail against her stubborn Parents heart , The more she beg'd the more they rail [ ' ] worser saying , she and her love must part , And under duty fix her mind unto the match they had design'd . She now being banished from her Love , and wedding day now drawing on , She must be forc'd her will to move on whom she ne'r could look upon , Abjuring oft his very sighed , & wish't Heaven would obscure the light For all these tears her friends increas'd in Tyranny still more and more , So that the Parson never ceas'd till he had read the Wedlock o're . Yet she did speechless still remain , while tears & sighs dropped down amain Then coming home with hand and Eyes erected up to Heaven , she prays , ( With Penetrable sighs and cries ) some stander by to end her days ? Wishing to Heaven that it wou'd let the Earth sink whereon she stood . In the meantime her only dear whose Parents Tyranny did part , These tidings which came to his ear , within short space did break his hear Which then did so enrage her grief , she gave the world o're for relief . Now therefore falling in a trance , like one distracted or possessed ; Fancying the Furies turn [ ' ] worser her dance , her wandering mind could take no res Which then did so enrage her fate , her friends then griev'd , but 'twas too late Thus poor distracted woman she for some few days in torture groan , Her thoughts increase her misery , and Parents then too late bemoan . Then sitting on her mournful bed . with poison in glass these words she said Love , though thou art gone I am thy wife and this same health I drink for thee , Thou that art dearer then my life , why should we longer absent be ? Come gentle glass one kiss of thine shall send me to my love divine . Then lifting up her steady hand as if of her death were afraid , From which with Dagger at command with sighs & groans these words she said Since unto him my heart I owe , I'le pay my debts the world shall know Thus in a trice her life was gone , and blood which for her Love was fled , Now Parents will might sighs and groan for now alas they found her dead , They grieve and curse their fatal breath , as Accessaries of her death . Lament and grieve they might in vain , and to the stones declare their grief , None sought to remedy their pain , nor to their sorrows give relief : That had thus through their Tyranny brought their own Child to misery . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West smithfield . The London Damsels fate by unjust Tyranny : Or , the Rash Lover . Being a Relation of a handsome maid that was lately through the Tyranny of her Parents , forced from her dearest , to one whom she hated , her Love for sorrow dies , she being distracted through grief and envy , first drinks poison , and then stabs herself , and died in great Desolation . Tune of Troy Town , ALl you that unto marriage tend , and give your hearts unto the fate , As maidens hearts that way do bend , listen to what I shall relate ; Where unjust choice through Tyranny , did bring this maid to misery . She lov'd a youngman passing well , whose youth and fortune did advance Both Spain and Holland as men tell , and eke the glorious Court of France ; But as her Love she oft applied , her Parents crossness still deny'd . Yet she insisted in her Love ; and to her dearest gave her Heart , Protesting still that death should prove her mortal soul e'r she would par Never did Turtles more invest a constancy in each ones breast . She often clasp't about his Neck her Crystal Arms , as Lovers do , But little thought those signs a check to bring her kindness unto woe : Till peevish Parents by their will those tender hope's of joy did kill . Her Lover us'd to make great moan , saying , if she were ever fled , His would then be left alone , and in short space of time be dead : That such departing once away would quickly bring his fatal day . No sooner had these Lovers gave each others hands and hearts also , But her cross mother brings a slave whom she would have her married to , Crossing her love to please her will , because she would her mind fulfil . Her Parents still made no delay to hasten her unto their choice , But what she proffer'd they cried nay , and made it go by th' major voice : Forcing her to be made a wife to whom she ne'r lov'd in her life . Alas she cry'd her heart she had given unto her dearest love and joy , Wishing a thousand times to Heaven and Mother , that they'd not destroy So dear a heart and force her mind to whom she ne'r could passion find . Those sighs and tears could not prevail against her stubborn Parents heart , The more she beg'd the more they rail [ ' ] worser saying , she and her love must part , And under duty fix her mind unto the match they had design'd . She now being banished from her Love , and wedding day now drawing on , She must be forc'd her will to move on whom she ne'r could look upon , Abjuring oft his very sighed , & wish't Heaven would obscure the light For all these tears her friends increas'd in Tyranny still more and more , So that the Parson never ceas'd till he had read the Wedlock o're . Yet she did speechless still remain , while tears & sighs dropped down amain Then coming home with hand and Eyes erected up to Heaven , she prays , ( With Penetrable sighs and cries ) some stander by to end her days ? Wishing to Heaven that it wou'd let the Earth sink whereon she stood . In the meantime her only dear whose Parents Tyranny did part , These tidings which came to his ear , within short space did break his hear Which then did so enrage her grief , she gave the world o're for relief . Now therefore falling in a trance , like one distracted or possessed ; Fancying the Furies turn [ ' ] worser her dance , her wandering mind could take no res Which then did so enrage her fate , her friends then griev'd , but 'twas too late Thus poor distracted woman she for some few days in torture groan , Her thoughts increase her misery , and Parents then too late bemoan . Then sitting on her mournful bed . with poison in glass these words she said Love , though thou art gone I am thy wife and this same health I drink for thee , Thou that art dearer then my life , why should we longer absent be ? Come gentle glass one kiss of thine shall send me to my love divine . Then lifting up her steady hand as if of her death were afraid , From which with Dagger at command with sighs & groans these words she said Since unto him my heart I owe , I'le pay my debts the world shall know Thus in a trice her life was gone , and blood which for her Love was fled , Now Parents will might sighs and groan for now alas they found her dead , They grieve and curse their fatal breath , as Accessaries of her death . Lament and grieve they might in vain , and to the stones declare their grief , None sought to remedy their pain , nor to their sorrows give relief : That had thus through their Tyranny brought their own Child to misery . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West smithfield . 