And excellent BALLAD of GEORGE BARNWELL , and Apprentice in the City of LONDON , who was Undone by a STRUMPET , who caused him thrice to Rob his Master , and to Murder his Uncle in Ludlow , etc To the Tune of , The Merchant , etc ALl Youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near , Regard my Story that I tell , and to my Song give ear , A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel , that did spend my Master many a pound . Take heed of Harlots then , and their enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought to hang alive in chains . As I upon a day was walking through the street , About my Master's business , I did a Wanton meet , A gallant dainty Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me , and did my name require : Which when I had declar'd , she gave me then a kiss , And said , If I would come to her , I should have more than this : In faith my Boy ( quoth she ) such news I can you tell , As shall rejoice the very heart , then come where I do dwell . 'Fair Mistress , then said I , '' 'if I the place may know , 'This evening I will be with you , 'for I abroad must go 'To gather moneys in , 'that is my Master's due , 'And e're that I do home return , 'i'll come and visit you . Good Barnwel , then ( quoth she ) do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for Mistress Milwood there , next door unto the gun ; And trust me on my truth , if thou keep touch with me , For thy Friends sake , and as my own heart thou shalt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in , by six a clock at night , And hundred pound and one , with bag under my arm , I went to Mistress Milwood's house , and thought on little harm : And knocking at the door , straightway herself came down , Rustling in most brave attire , her hood and silken gown . Who through her beauty bright , so gloriously did shine , That she amaz'd my dazzling eyes , she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel , then ( quoth she ) unto this homely place ; Welcome ten thousand times , more welcome then my Brother , And better welcome I protest than any one or other : And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely supper e're thou part , thou shalt take here with me . 'O pardon me ( quoth I ) 'fair Mistress , I you pray , 'For why , out of my Master's house 'so long I dare not stay . Alas , good Sir , she said , are you so strictly ty'd , You may not with your dearest Friend one hour or two abide : Faith then the case is hard , if it be so ( quoth she ) I would I were a Prentice bound , to live in house with thee : Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a Woman much , her fancy to bewray : Let not affection's force be counted lewd desire , For think it not immodesty I should thy love require . With that she turn'd aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewray'd ; by holding down her head : A handkerchief she had all wrought with silk and gold , Which she to stay her trickling tears , against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my fight was wondrous , rare and strange , And in my mind and inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change : That I so hardy was , to take her by the hand , Saying , 'Sweet Mistress why do you 'so sad and heavy stand ? Call me no Mistress now , but Sarah thy true Friend , Thy Servant Sarah , honouring thee until her life does end : If thou would'st here allege thou art in years a Boy , So was Adonis , yet was he fair Venus's love and joy . Thus I that ne'r before of Woman found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame give me a kind embrace ; I supped with her that night with joys that did a bound , And for the same paid presently , in money twice three pound : And hundred kisses then , for my farewell she gave , Saying , Sweet Barnwel , when shall I again thy company have ? O stay not too long my Dear , sweet George , have me in mind . Her words betwicht my childishness , she uttered them so kind . To that I made a vow , next Sunday without fail , With my sweet Sarah once again , to tell some pleasant tale . When she herd me say so , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George , quoth she , if thou dost fail , thy Sarah sure will die . Though long , yet lo at last , the pointed day was come , That I must with my Sarah meet , having a mighty sum Of money in my hand , unto her house went I , Whereas my Love upon her bed in saddest sort did lie : 'What ails my heart's delight , 'my Sarah dear , quoth I , 'Let not my Love lament and grieve , 'nor sighing pine and die , 'But tell to me my dearest Friend , 'what may thy woes amend , 'And thou shalt lack no means of help , 'though forty pound I spend . With that she turn'd her head , and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George , my grief is great , ten pounds I have to pay Unto a cruel Wretch , and God he knows , quoth she , I have it not . 'Tush rise , quoth he , 'and take it here of me ; 'Ten pounds , nor ten times ten 'shall make my love decay . Then from his bag into her lap , he cast ten pound straightway . All blithe and pleasant then , to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time , I gave her store of coin ; Yea , sometime fifty pound at once , all which I did purloin . And thus I did pass on , until my Master then , Did call to have his reckoning in cast up among his Men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out two hundred pounds that day . Then from my Master straight I ran in secret sort , And unto Sarah Milwood then my state I did report . But how she us'd this Youth , in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity so oft with money feed ; The Second Part behold , shall tell it forth at large , And shall a Strumpet's wily ways , with all her tricks discharge . The Second PART of GEORGE BARNWELL , to the same Tune . 'HEre comes young Barnwel unto thee , sweet Sarah , my Delight , 'I am undone except thou stand 'my faithful Friend this nigh 'Our Master to command accounts , 'hath just occasion found , 'And I am found behind the hand 'almost two hundred pound : 'And therefore knowing not at all , 'what answer for to make , 'And his displeasure to escape , 'my way to thee I take ; 'Hoping in this extremity , 'thou wilt my succour be , 'That for a time I may remain 'in safety here with thee . With that she knit and bent her brows , and looking all a quoy , Quoth she , What should I have to do with any Prentice-boy ? And seeing you have purloyn'd and god your Master's goods away , The case is bad , and therefore here I mean thou shalt not stay . 'Why Sweetheart thou knost , he said 'that all which I did get , 'I gave it and did spend it all 'upon thee every whi 'Thou knowest I loved thee so well , 'though could'st not ask the thing , 'But that I did incontinent , 'the same unto the bring . Quoth she , Thou are paltry Jack , to charge me in this sort , Being a Woman of credit good , and known of good repor And therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . 'Is this the love and friendship which 'thou did'st to me protest ? 'Is this the great affection which 'you seemed to express ? 'Now fie on all deceitful shows , 'the best is I may speed , 'To get a lodging anywhere , 'for money in my need : 'Therefore false Woman now farewell , 'while twenty pound does last , 'My anchor in some other haven 'I will with wisdom cast . When she perceived by his words , that he had money store , That she had guli'd him in such sort , it grieved her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again , she did suppose it bes Stay George , quoth she , thou art to quick , why Man I do but jest ; Think'st thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith not , quoth she , my love to thee I wiss is more then so . 'You will not deal with Prentice-bois , 'I herd you even now swear , 'Therefore I will not trouble you . My George hark in thine ear , Thou shalt not go tonight , quod she , what chance to e're befall , But Man we'll have a bed for thee , or else the Devil take all . Thus I that was with wiles betwicht and snar'd with fancy still , Had not the power to put away , or withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in the World I though And excellent BALLAD of GEORGE BARNWELL , and Apprentice in the City of LONDON , who was Undone by a STRUMPET , who caused him thrice to Rob his Master , and to Murder his Uncle in Ludlow , etc To the Tune of , The Merchant , etc ALl Youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near , Regard my Story that I tell , and to my Song give ear , A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel , that did spend my Master many a pound . Take heed of Harlots then , and their enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought to hang alive in chains . As I upon a day was walking through the street , About my Master's business , I did a Wanton meet , A gallant dainty Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me , and did my name require : Which when I had declar'd , she gave me then a kiss , And said , If I would come to her , I should have more than this : In faith my Boy ( quoth she ) such news I can you tell , As shall rejoice the very heart , then come where I do dwell . 'Fair Mistress , then said I , '' 'if I the place may know , 'This evening I will be with you , 'for I abroad must go 'To gather moneys in , 'that is my Master's due , 'And e're that I do home return , 'i'll come and visit you . Good Barnwel , then ( quoth she ) do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for Mistress Milwood there , next door unto the gun ; And trust me on my truth , if thou keep touch with me , For thy Friends sake , and as my own heart thou shalt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in , by six a clock at night , And hundred pound and one , with bag under my arm , I went to Mistress Milwood's house , and thought on little harm : And knocking at the door , straightway herself came down , Rustling in most brave attire , her hood and silken gown . Who through her beauty bright , so gloriously did shine , That she amaz'd my dazzling eyes , she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel , then ( quoth she ) unto this homely place ; Welcome ten thousand times , more welcome then my Brother , And better welcome I protest than any one or other : And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely supper e're thou part , thou shalt take here with me . 'O pardon me ( quoth I ) 'fair Mistress , I you pray , 'For why , out of my Master's house 'so long I dare not stay . Alas , good Sir , she said , are you so strictly ty'd , You may not with your dearest Friend one hour or two abide : Faith then the case is hard , if it be so ( quoth she ) I would I were a Prentice bound , to live in house with thee : Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a Woman much , her fancy to bewray : Let not affection's force be counted lewd desire , For think it not immodesty I should thy love require . With that she turn'd aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewray'd ; by holding down her head : A handkerchief she had all wrought with silk and gold , Which she to stay her trickling tears , against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my fight was wondrous , rare and strange , And in my mind and inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change : That I so hardy was , to take her by the hand , Saying , 'Sweet Mistress why do you 'so sad and heavy stand ? Call me no Mistress now , but Sarah thy true Friend , Thy Servant Sarah , honouring thee until her life does end : If thou would'st here allege thou art in years a Boy , So was Adonis , yet was he fair Venus's love and joy . Thus I that ne'r before of Woman found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame give me a kind embrace ; I supped with her that night with joys that did a bound , And for the same paid presently , in money twice three pound : And hundred kisses then , for my farewell she gave , Saying , Sweet Barnwel , when shall I again thy company have ? O stay not too long my Dear , sweet George , have me in mind . Her words betwicht my childishness , she uttered them so kind . To that I made a vow , next Sunday without fail , With my sweet Sarah once again , to tell some pleasant tale . When she herd me say so , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George , quoth she , if thou dost fail , thy Sarah sure will die . Though long , yet lo at last , the pointed day was come , That I must with my Sarah meet , having a mighty sum Of money in my hand , unto her house went I , Whereas my Love upon her bed in saddest sort did lie : 'What ails my heart's delight , 'my Sarah dear , quoth I , 'Let not my Love lament and grieve , 'nor sighing pine and die , 'But tell to me my dearest Friend , 'what may thy woes amend , 'And thou shalt lack no means of help , 'though forty pound I spend . With that she turn'd her head , and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George , my grief is great , ten pounds I have to pay Unto a cruel Wretch , and God he knows , quoth she , I have it not . 'Tush rise , quoth he , 'and take it here of me ; 'Ten pounds , nor ten times ten 'shall make my love decay . Then from his bag into her lap , he cast ten pound straightway . All blithe and pleasant then , to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time , I gave her store of coin ; Yea , sometime fifty pound at once , all which I did purloin . And thus I did pass on , until my Master then , Did call to have his reckoning in cast up among his Men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out two hundred pounds that day . Then from my Master straight I ran in secret sort , And unto Sarah Milwood then my state I did report . But how she us'd this Youth , in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity so oft with money feed ; The Second Part behold , shall tell it forth at large , And shall a Strumpet's wily ways , with all her tricks discharge . The Second PART of GEORGE BARNWELL , to the same Tune . 'HEre comes young Barnwel unto thee , sweet Sarah , my Delight , 'I am undone except thou stand 'my faithful Friend this nigh 'Our Master to command accounts , 'hath just occasion found , 'And I am found behind the hand 'almost two hundred pound : 'And therefore knowing not at all , 'what answer for to make , 'And his displeasure to escape , 'my way to thee I take ; 'Hoping in this extremity , 'thou wilt my succour be , 'That for a time I may remain 'in safety here with thee . With that she knit and bent her brows , and looking all a quoy , Quoth she , What should I have to do with any Prentice-boy ? And seeing you have purloyn'd and god your Master's goods away , The case is bad , and therefore here I mean thou shalt not stay . 'Why Sweetheart thou knost , he said 'that all which I did get , 'I gave it and did spend it all 'upon thee every whi 'Thou knowest I loved thee so well , 'though could'st not ask the thing , 'But that I did incontinent , 'the same unto the bring . Quoth she , Thou are paltry Jack , to charge me in this sort , Being a Woman of credit good , and known of good repor And therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . 'Is this the love and friendship which 'thou did'st to me protest ? 'Is this the great affection which 'you seemed to express ? 'Now fie on all deceitful shows , 'the best is I may speed , 'To get a lodging anywhere , 'for money in my need : 'Therefore false Woman now farewell , 'while twenty pound does last , 'My anchor in some other haven 'I will with wisdom cast . When she perceived by his words , that he had money store , That she had guli'd him in such sort , it grieved her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again , she did suppose it bes Stay George , quoth she , thou art to quick , why Man I do but jest ; Think'st thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith not , quoth she , my love to thee I wiss is more then so . 'You will not deal with Prentice-bois , 'I herd you even now swear , 'Therefore I will not trouble you . My George hark in thine ear , Thou shalt not go tonight , quod she , what chance to e're befall , But Man we'll have a bed for thee , or else the Devil take all . Thus I that was with wiles betwicht and snar'd with fancy still , Had not the power to put away , or withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in the World I thought for Sarah's love too dear , While I was in her company in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think , that I upon her spen 'A fig for care and careful thoughts , 'when all my gold is gone , 'In faith my Girl we will have more , 'whoever it light upon . 'My Father's rich , why then , quod I , 'should I want any gold ? With a father indeed , quoth she , a Son may well be bold . 'I have a Sister richly wed , 'i'll rob her e're i'll want ; Why then , quod Sarah , they may well consider of your scant . 'Nay more then this , and Uncle I have 'at Ludlow he does dwell , 'he is a Grazier , which in wealth 'doth all the rest excel : 'E're I will live in lack , quoth he , 'and have no coin for thee , 'I'll rob his house and murder him . Why should you not , quoth she : E're I would want , were I a Man , or live in poor estate , On Father , Friends , and all my Kin , I would my talons grate : For without money , George , quod she , a Man is but a beast , And bringing money thou shalt be always my chiefest Guest . For say thou should'st pursued be with twenty Hues and Cries , And with a warrant searched for with Argus hundred eyes : Yet in my house thou shalt be safe , such privy ways there be , That if they sought and hundred years they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their cups , their pleasures to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . Which being done , to Ludlow then he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then , his Minion would it so ; And once or twice he thought to take his Father by the way , But that he thought his Master had took order for his stay : Directly to his Uncle then he road with might and main , ' Where with welcome and good cheer he did him entertain : A sennight's space he stayed there , until it chanced so , His Uncle with his cattle did unto a market go : His Kinsman needs must ride with him , and he saw right plain , Great store of money he had took ; in coming home again , Most suddenly with in a wood he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head , so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore poud in ready coin out of his purse he took , And coming into London Town , the Country quite forsook : To Sarah Milwood then he came , showing his store of gold , And how he had his Uncle slave , to her he plainly told , Tush , it's no matter , George , quod she , so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And thus they liv'd in filthy sort , till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more , I wiss poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort , she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get , that spend upon a Whore : 'O do me not this foul disgrace , 'in this my need , quoth he . She called him Thief and Murderer , with all despite might be . And to the Constable she went to have him apprehended , And shew'd in each degree how far he had the law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to sea he god straightway , Where fear and dread and conscience sting upon himself does stay : Unto the Mayor of London then , he did a letter write , Wherein his own and Sarah's faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , Where she was judg'd , condemn'd and hang'd for murder incontinent , And there this gallant Quean did die , this was her greatest gains : For murder in Polonia was Barnwel hang'd in chains . Lo , here's the End of wilful Youth , that after Harlots haunt , Who in the spoil of of other Men , about the streets do flaunt . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . London : Printed by and for W.O. and A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . tO for Sarah's love too dear , While I was in her company in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think , that I upon her spen 'A fig for care and careful thoughts , 'when all my gold is gone , 'In faith my Girl we will have more , 'whoever it light upon . 'My Father's rich , why then , quod I , 'should I want any gold ? With a father indeed , quoth she , a Son may well be bold . 'I have a Sister richly wed , 'i'll rob her e're i'll want ; Why then , quod Sarah , they may well consider of your scant . 'Nay more then this , and Uncle I have 'at Ludlow he does dwell , 'he is a Grazier , which in wealth 'doth all the rest excel : 'E're I will live in lack , quoth he , 'and have no coin for thee , 'I'll rob his house and murder him . Why should you not , quoth she : E're I would want , were I a Man , or live in poor estate , On Father , Friends , and all my Kin , I would my talons grate : For without money , George , quod she , a Man is but a beast , And bringing money thou shalt be always my chiefest Guest . For say thou should'st pursued be with twenty Hues and Cries , And with a warrant searched for with Argus hundred eyes : Yet in my house thou shalt be safe , such privy ways there be , That if they sought and hundred years they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their cups , their pleasures to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . Which being done , to Ludlow then he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then , his Minion would it so ; And once or twice he thought to take his Father by the way , But that he thought his Master had took order for his stay : Directly to his Uncle then he road with might and main , ' Where with welcome and good cheer he did him entertain : A sennight's space he stayed there , until it chanced so , His Uncle with his cattle did unto a market go : His Kinsman needs must ride with him , and he saw right plain , Great store of money he had took ; in coming home again , Most suddenly with in a wood he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head , so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore poud in ready coin out of his purse he took , And coming into London Town , the Country quite forsook : To Sarah Milwood then he came , showing his store of gold , And how he had his Uncle slave , to her he plainly told , Tush , it's no matter , George , quod she , so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And thus they liv'd in filthy sort , till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more , I wiss poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort , she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get , that spend upon a Whore : 'O do me not this foul disgrace , 'in this my need , quoth he . She called him Thief and Murderer , with all despite might be . And to the Constable she went to have him apprehended , And shew'd in each degree how far he had the law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to sea he god straightway , Where fear and dread and conscience sting upon himself does stay : Unto the Mayor of London then , he did a letter write , Wherein his own and Sarah's faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , Where she was judg'd , condemn'd and hang'd for murder incontinent , And there this gallant Quean did die , this was her greatest gains : For murder in Polonia was Barnwel hang'd in chains . Lo , here's the End of wilful Youth , that after Harlots haunt , Who in the spoil of of other Men , about the streets do flaunt . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . London : Printed by and for W.O. and A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 