The Dumb MAID : OR , THE Young GALLANT Trappan'd . A young Man did unto her a Wooing come , But she pretended much that she was Dumb ; But when they both in Marriage-bands were ty'd , The Doctor's Skill was likewise with her try'd ; The Doctor he set her Tongue on the Run , She Chatters now , and never will have done . To a new Tune , call'd , Dum , dum , dum : or , I would I were in my own Country , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . ALl you that p [ a ] ss along , Give ear unto my Song , Concerning a Youth that was young , young , young ; And of a Maiden fair , Few with her might compare , But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . She was beauteous , fresh , and gay , Like the pleasant Flowers in May , And her cheeks was as round , as a plum , plum , plum ; She was neat in every part , And she stole away his heart ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . At length this Country Blade , Wedded this pretty Maid , And he kindly conducted her home , home , home , Thus in her Beauty bright , Lay all his whole Delight ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . Now will I plainly show What woe [ r ] k this Maid could do , Which a Pattern may be , for Girls young , young , young : Oh she both day and night , In working took delight ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . She could brew , and she could bake , She could wash , wring , and shake , She could sweep the House with a broom , broom , broom : She could knit , and sow , and spin , And do any such like thing ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . But at last this Man did go , The Doctor's Skill to know , Saying , Sir , can you cure a Woman of the Dumb ? O it is the easiest part , That belongs unto my Art , For to cure a Woman of the dumb , dumb , dumb . To the Doctor he did her bring , And h [ e ] cut her Chattering-string , And he set her Tongue on the run , run , run : In the morning he did rise , And she fill'd his House with cries , And she rattled in his ears like a drum , drum , drum . To the Doctor he did go , With his heart well fill'd with woe , Crying , Doctor , I am undone , done , done ; Now she's turn'd a scolding Wife , And I am weary of my life , Nor I cannot make her hold her tongue , tongue , tongue . The Doctor thus did say , When she went from me away , She was perfectly cured of the dumb , dumb , dumb : But it's beyond the Art of Man , Let him do the best he can , For to make a scolding Woman hold her tongue , tongue , tongue . So as you to me came , Return you back again , And take you the Oil of H [ a ] zel strong ; With it anoint her Body round , When she makes the House to found ; So perhaps you may charm her tongue , tongue , tongue . London : Printed by and for W.O. A.M. and are to be Sold by C. Bates , in Pie-corner . The Dumb MAID : OR , THE Young GALLANT Trappan'd . A young Man did unto her a Wooing come , But she pretended much that she was Dumb ; But when they both in Marriage-bands were ty'd , The Doctor's Skill was likewise with her try'd ; The Doctor he set her Tongue on the Run , She Chatters now , and never will have done . To a new Tune , call'd , Dum , dum , dum : or , I would I were in my own Country , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . ALl you that p [ a ] ss along , Give ear unto my Song , Concerning a Youth that was young , young , young ; And of a Maiden fair , Few with her might compare , But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . She was beauteous , fresh , and gay , Like the pleasant Flowers in May , And her cheeks was as round , as a plum , plum , plum ; She was neat in every part , And she stole away his heart ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . At length this Country Blade , Wedded this pretty Maid , And he kindly conducted her home , home , home , Thus in her Beauty bright , Lay all his whole Delight ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . Now will I plainly show What woe [ r ] k this Maid could do , Which a Pattern may be , for Girls young , young , young : Oh she both day and night , In working took delight ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . She could brew , and she could bake , She could wash , wring , and shake , She could sweep the House with a broom , broom , broom : She could knit , and sow , and spin , And do any such like thing ; But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . But at last this Man did go , The Doctor's Skill to know , Saying , Sir , can you cure a Woman of the Dumb ? O it is the easiest part , That belongs unto my Art , For to cure a Woman of the dumb , dumb , dumb . To the Doctor he did her bring , And h [ e ] cut her Chattering-string , And he set her Tongue on the run , run , run : In the morning he did rise , And she fill'd his House with cries , And she rattled in his ears like a drum , drum , drum . To the Doctor he did go , With his heart well fill'd with woe , Crying , Doctor , I am undone , done , done ; Now she's turn'd a scolding Wife , And I am weary of my life , Nor I cannot make her hold her tongue , tongue , tongue . The Doctor thus did say , When she went from me away , She was perfectly cured of the dumb , dumb , dumb : But it's beyond the Art of Man , Let him do the best he can , For to make a scolding Woman hold her tongue , tongue , tongue . So as you to me came , Return you back again , And take you the Oil of H [ a ] zel strong ; With it anoint her Body round , When she makes the House to found ; So perhaps you may charm her tongue , tongue , tongue . London : Printed by and for W.O. A.M. and are to be Sold by C. Bates , in Pie-corner . 