THE French Preliminaries . A New Ballad to the Old Tune of Packington's Pound . ALL you that have Stock , and are Mad for a Peace , Come listen a while , and I'll give your Hearts ease ; And let all True Churchmen Rejoice when they see How Low the French creep to the New Min ------ y . A great Poet lately was sent into France For a General Treaty to make some Advance ; In Return of whose Visit , a Knight newly made , And a Governing Man of the French South-Sea Trade , Came with a full Power , as he says , from the King , These Tidings of Gladness for Britain to bring . I . He declares that the King will do all that is fitting To acknowledge Her Majesty Queen of Great-Britain ; For which if you scruple to take his bore Word , Pray think how that Monarch us'd William the Third , Whom he own'd , and disown'd , and set up the Pretender , And with him still noses our Church's Defender . He also protests that the Crown shall descend , As at present 'tis settl'd , for that very End. II That he will bona fide , and freely consent , That whoever is able may take Care to prevent The French and the Spaniards being under One Yoke , Which is easily done when th' Alliance is broke ; For he horribly fears lest and Excess of Power The Quiet of Europe may chance to devour . III . He also intends the Allies One and All , ( For he scorns to except the Great or the Small , ) If they'll be but contented with what he will give 'em , Shall find he's a Man that will never deceive 'em ; Their Trade shall be Safe , tho' he does not declare To Inquisitive Folks in what Manner , or Where . IV. As the King will maintain the Peace when concluded , So for fear that the Dutch should think they are deluded ; Of them on a sudden he's grown very Tender , And Consents for their Good that they may Surrender Whate'er has been taken in Flanders this War , And he'll then yield them back a very good Barr. But as for the Title of States High and Mighty , Which some People use on Purpose to fright you , The Republic of Holland does Properer seem , For Republics of late are in mighty Esteem . V. The King consents likewise , that instead of Spain A Barrier shall for the Empire remain . VI . Tho' Dunkirk was Bought by the King pretty Dear , And has cost Money since , as may plainly appear , His Majesty's willing however to Swear He'll raze all the Works at the End of the War , If he may but a proper Equivalent have , That is , What his Majesty thinks fit to Crave : But as England , he's told , is now grown so Poor , That for what her King Sold for Some Pence and One Whore , And Equivalent cannot be rais'd by that Nation , But shall be referr'd to the Negotiation . VII . Once more by his Faith , and Oath none e'er doubted , He swears in this Peace no Prince shall be Outed ; For he does not expect Charles should be so sullen , As at last to exclude Bavaria and Cologne . Thus you have herd the vast Offers the Frenchmen have made For these Realms , our Allies , and Dear South-Sea Trade . And Abel declares they're return'd very glad Of the Civil Reception which there they have had . So all you that have Stock , and are Mad for a Peace , Think of what has been said , and 'twill give your Hearts Ease , And let all true Churchmen rejoice when they see How Low the French creep to the New Min ------ y . AMSTERDAM , Printed in the Year 1712. Price 1 worser . THE French Preliminaries . A New Ballad to the Old Tune of Packington's Pound . ALL you that have Stock , and are Mad for a Peace , Come listen a while , and I'll give your Hearts ease ; And let all True Churchmen Rejoice when they see How Low the French creep to the New Min ------ y . A great Poet lately was sent into France For a General Treaty to make some Advance ; In Return of whose Visit , a Knight newly made , And a Governing Man of the French South-Sea Trade , Came with a full Power , as he says , from the King , These Tidings of Gladness for Britain to bring . I . He declares that the King will do all that is fitting To acknowledge Her Majesty Queen of Great-Britain ; For which if you scruple to take his bore Word , Pray think how that Monarch us'd William the Third , Whom he own'd , and disown'd , and set up the Pretender , And with him still noses our Church's Defender . He also protests that the Crown shall descend , As at present 'tis settl'd , for that very End. II That he will bona fide , and freely consent , That whoever is able may take Care to prevent The French and the Spaniards being under One Yoke , Which is easily done when th' Alliance is broke ; For he horribly fears lest and Excess of Power The Quiet of Europe may chance to devour . III . He also intends the Allies One and All , ( For he scorns to except the Great or the Small , ) If they'll be but contented with what he will give 'em , Shall find he's a Man that will never deceive 'em ; Their Trade shall be Safe , tho' he does not declare To Inquisitive Folks in what Manner , or Where . IV. As the King will maintain the Peace when concluded , So for fear that the Dutch should think they are deluded ; Of them on a sudden he's grown very Tender , And Consents for their Good that they may Surrender Whate'er has been taken in Flanders this War , And he'll then yield them back a very good Barr. But as for the Title of States High and Mighty , Which some People use on Purpose to fright you , The Republic of Holland does Properer seem , For Republics of late are in mighty Esteem . V. The King consents likewise , that instead of Spain A Barrier shall for the Empire remain . VI . Tho' Dunkirk was Bought by the King pretty Dear , And has cost Money since , as may plainly appear , His Majesty's willing however to Swear He'll raze all the Works at the End of the War , If he may but a proper Equivalent have , That is , What his Majesty thinks fit to Crave : But as England , he's told , is now grown so Poor , That for what her King Sold for Some Pence and One Whore , And Equivalent cannot be rais'd by that Nation , But shall be referr'd to the Negotiation . VII . Once more by his Faith , and Oath none e'er doubted , He swears in this Peace no Prince shall be Outed ; For he does not expect Charles should be so sullen , As at last to exclude Bavaria and Cologne . Thus you have herd the vast Offers the Frenchmen have made For these Realms , our Allies , and Dear South-Sea Trade . And Abel declares they're return'd very glad Of the Civil Reception which there they have had . So all you that have Stock , and are Mad for a Peace , Think of what has been said , and 'twill give your Hearts Ease , And let all true Churchmen rejoice when they see How Low the French creep to the New Min ------ y . AMSTERDAM , Printed in the Year 1712. Price 1 worser . 