The Squire's Grief Crown'd with Comfort OR , Nectar preferr'd before Scornful Cynthia , To the Tune of Let the Soldiers rejoice . Licensed according to Order ARe the Fates so unkind , As to keep me confin'd , Debarr'd of all Free --- dom and Pleasure ? For the young Charming Saint , Ne'er regards my Complaint , But deny's me , deny's me the Fountain of Pleasure . I'm catch'd in the Snare , Of a Beauty so fair , Whom all the whole Wor ------ ld will admire ; At her Feet when I bow , Not a Smile she'll allow , But she leaves me , she leaves me , to burn with desire . When I tell her of Love , That I prize none above Fair Cynthia my A --- morous Jewel ; She returns me her Frown , Which do's quite run me down ; Oh! was ever , was ever a Creature so cruel ! When her Eyes I beheld , With Raptures I swell'd To gain her I u --- s'd my endeavour ; But yet all was in vain , I might sighs and complain . She deny'd me , deny'd me the Blessing for ever . Being clearly deny'd , I in sorrow reply'd , Whom Beauty a --- lone hath invited , Is rejected at last , This my Glory does blast , Oh! was ever was , ever young Lover so slighted ? Thus with sorrow oppressed , And deny'd of all rest , I started when e --- 'er I did slumber , For my sorrows were more , Then the sands on the shore , For I tell you , I tell you , they were out of numb [ er ] But at length I took Heart , And defended the Dart , And with a good F --- ace I can carry it , And solemnly declare , There's no Cynthia so fair , As a Bottle , a Bottle of delicate Claret This my Joys will restore , I'll regard her no more , Nor trouble my Nod --- dle about her , For my Heart is at ease , I can love when I please , Therefore tell her , now tell her I can love without [ tO ] her Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Squire's Grief Crown'd with Comfort OR , Nectar preferr'd before Scornful Cynthia , To the Tune of Let the Soldiers rejoice . Licensed according to Order ARe the Fates so unkind , As to keep me confin'd , Debarr'd of all Free --- dom and Pleasure ? For the young Charming Saint , Ne'er regards my Complaint , But deny's me , deny's me the Fountain of Pleasure . I'm catch'd in the Snare , Of a Beauty so fair , Whom all the whole Wor ------ ld will admire ; At her Feet when I bow , Not a Smile she'll allow , But she leaves me , she leaves me , to burn with desire . When I tell her of Love , That I prize none above Fair Cynthia my A --- morous Jewel ; She returns me her Frown , Which do's quite run me down ; Oh! was ever , was ever a Creature so cruel ! When her Eyes I beheld , With Raptures I swell'd To gain her I u --- s'd my endeavour ; But yet all was in vain , I might sighs and complain . She deny'd me , deny'd me the Blessing for ever . Being clearly deny'd , I in sorrow reply'd , Whom Beauty a --- lone hath invited , Is rejected at last , This my Glory does blast , Oh! was ever was , ever young Lover so slighted ? Thus with sorrow oppressed , And deny'd of all rest , I started when e --- 'er I did slumber , For my sorrows were more , Then the sands on the shore , For I tell you , I tell you , they were out of numb [ er ] But at length I took Heart , And defended the Dart , And with a good F --- ace I can carry it , And solemnly declare , There's no Cynthia so fair , As a Bottle , a Bottle of delicate Claret This my Joys will restore , I'll regard her no more , Nor trouble my Nod --- dle about her , For my Heart is at ease , I can love when I please , Therefore tell her , now tell her I can love without [ tO ] her Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 