To our Valiant ENGLISH NATION , And ENCOMIUM on that Worthy Exploit of Capt. JOHN BADDISON , Com - mander of the Swallow , of 180 Tons , and 26 Men ; who preserv'd himself , and two other small Ships , from a Turks Man of War , of 36 Guns , and 220 Men ; whom he , after a long and terrible Fight , very honourably repulsed , and brought home 4 of the Turks Prisoners . APollo , Pallas , and the Muses all Assist me ( seeing for your help I call ) I want your Aid now to direct my Pen , To write the Praise of Valiant Englishmen , Who through all Ages have been much renown'd , And for their Courage are with Honour crown'd . Since first this Land receiv'd the British name , It never wanted some t'extol its Fame . We ride triumphant with our Flags display'd : ( All Nations prosper when they have our Aid ) Lords of the World's great Wasts , the Ocean ; We Whole Forests send to reign upon the Sea. Our little World ( the image of the Great , Like that amid the boundless Ocean set ) Of its own growth hath all that Nature craves , And all that's rare , as Tribute from the Waves : The taste of hight Arabia's Spice we know , Free from the scorching Sun that made it so . Without the Worm , in Persian Silks we shine : And , without planting , drink of every Vine . To dig for Wealth we weary not our limbs ; Gold ( though the heaviest metal ) hither swims . We reign i'th' Ocean , and rule o're the Main ; No Foreign Nation durst our wills restrain . Angels and we have this Prerogative , That none can to our happy Seat arrive ; While we descend at pleasure to invade The Bad with Vengeance , and the Good with Aid . The once great Spaniard , by our General Drake , Was made to tremble , and his Fleet to shake , With Thunderclaps which from Drakes sides did fly , Threatening destruction to his Enemy . Since him succeeded many Worthies more , Which on the Ocean made their Cannons Roar . Our Royal Duke did with his valiant Fleet Make Horror , Slaughter and Confusion me His Cannon bullets thick as Hail did fly , Whose dire effects ten thousand caus'd to die : His Courage , Valour , and his Prowess then Was a true Pattern for brave English-men , Whose steps they follow , and with full desire Wrongs to revenge , their Passion's set on fire ; They'l venture life and limbs , and all in fight , So to preserve their King and Countries Right . Our wealthy Merchant's do their Ships forth send ; These Martial Neptunes do their Goods defend . In Storms and Tempests they their skill make known ; When met with Pirates , then their might is shown . As instance here the brave Exploit that I In following Verse present unto your Eye . From Port a Port our HERO took his flight , With Canvas wings , to entertain the Night On th' Ocean's deep , where Billows lofty rise , Mounting their Surges to th' unconstant Skies ; And after two days spent , he lost the fight Of great Bajona , and prepar'd to fight With a proud Turk , who from Argier was sent , And swiftly gave them chase , to the intent That they might take , and ransack , and enthral The Bodies , Minds , and Christian Souls of all . But those base Pagans never can prevail , If once our English Banners them assail . Our worthy Captain first did cause to fly Two little Ships that by him close did lie ; Who from the fury of the Foes did glide , Being befriended by Night , Wind , and Tide . Then being ready , and his Guns run out , He then prepared for a bloody Bout ; Like Thunder , Lightning , and a Tempest great ; Like Raging Waves , which on the Rocks do bea Ev'n so our Captain , at his drawing nigh , Volleys Discharg'd at his proud Enemy ; The Waves did tremble , and the Heavens blush , When these two Champions did together rush . The Turks they board us , knowing not the strength Of Valiant English , which they felt at length : Presumption prompt them on to grapple strong , Which was too hight to be endur'd long ; For being on Deck , some in the Air did fly , Others our warlike Engines forc'd to die : Yet six remain'd , which almost laid us waste , By cutting Sails and Rigging from our Mass For which bold fact , two made the Sea their grave ; The rest cry'd Quarter , which we freely gave . There might you see their Bodies go to wreck , Heads , Arms and Legs bestrew'd upon the Deck . This was their fate , which then they could not shun , Their Blood did off the Deck , like water , run . Our Men between Decks with their great Guns tore And rend the Hull of the Turks Ship so soar , Made them leave off , and from our sides to shrink , Lest they should all of the Salt-water drink ; Their Ship lying by to stop her Leaks , and then Resolves to prove our Valour once again . Our Seamen bold , that never daunted were , To their proud Foes like Lions did appear , Threatening destruction , while a lucky Gun Made their Ship tremble , and our sides to shun ; Not once more daring to approach us nigh , But from us at a distance far to lie . The Night came on , a pleasant Gale appears , They left each other ; ours directly steers To her desired Por safely arriv'd Our English Captain , and all that surviv'd . Sixteen were wounded , and three kill'd outright ; The Ship soar Shatterd , and Sails burned in fight ; Only the Spirit and Mainsail left untore , Which brought them safely to our English shore : Where being arriv'd , were by his Majesty , And Royal Duke , welcom'd most graciously . For which brave Act the King and Order gave The Captain should a Chain and Medal have . The Merchant's did with honour him commend , Because their Goods he bravely did defend . He was not daunted with their mighty Force , 'Twas not their power could retard his Course . 'Tis Valour , a good Cause , and Manlike Sp'rit That stirs up truly Valiant Men to fight . J.F. Sold by John Favel in Exchange-Alley in Cornhil , over against the Royal Exchange , 1671. To our Valiant ENGLISH NATION , And ENCOMIUM on that Worthy Exploit of Capt. JOHN BADDISON , Com - mander of the Swallow , of 180 Tons , and 26 Men ; who preserv'd himself , and two other small Ships , from a Turks Man of War , of 36 Guns , and 220 Men ; whom he , after a long and terrible Fight , very honourably repulsed , and brought home 4 of the Turks Prisoners . APollo , Pallas , and the Muses all Assist me ( seeing for your help I call ) I want your Aid now to direct my Pen , To write the Praise of Valiant Englishmen , Who through all Ages have been much renown'd , And for their Courage are with Honour crown'd . Since first this Land receiv'd the British name , It never wanted some t'extol its Fame . We ride triumphant with our Flags display'd : ( All Nations prosper when they have our Aid ) Lords of the World's great Wasts , the Ocean ; We Whole Forests send to reign upon the Sea. Our little World ( the image of the Great , Like that amid the boundless Ocean set ) Of its own growth hath all that Nature craves , And all that's rare , as Tribute from the Waves : The taste of hight Arabia's Spice we know , Free from the scorching Sun that made it so . Without the Worm , in Persian Silks we shine : And , without planting , drink of every Vine . To dig for Wealth we weary not our limbs ; Gold ( though the heaviest metal ) hither swims . We reign i'th' Ocean , and rule o're the Main ; No Foreign Nation durst our wills restrain . Angels and we have this Prerogative , That none can to our happy Seat arrive ; While we descend at pleasure to invade The Bad with Vengeance , and the Good with Aid . The once great Spaniard , by our General Drake , Was made to tremble , and his Fleet to shake , With Thunderclaps which from Drakes sides did fly , Threatening destruction to his Enemy . Since him succeeded many Worthies more , Which on the Ocean made their Cannons Roar . Our Royal Duke did with his valiant Fleet Make Horror , Slaughter and Confusion me His Cannon bullets thick as Hail did fly , Whose dire effects ten thousand caus'd to die : His Courage , Valour , and his Prowess then Was a true Pattern for brave English-men , Whose steps they follow , and with full desire Wrongs to revenge , their Passion's set on fire ; They'l venture life and limbs , and all in fight , So to preserve their King and Countries Right . Our wealthy Merchant's do their Ships forth send ; These Martial Neptunes do their Goods defend . In Storms and Tempests they their skill make known ; When met with Pirates , then their might is shown . As instance here the brave Exploit that I In following Verse present unto your Eye . From Port a Port our HERO took his flight , With Canvas wings , to entertain the Night On th' Ocean's deep , where Billows lofty rise , Mounting their Surges to th' unconstant Skies ; And after two days spent , he lost the fight Of great Bajona , and prepar'd to fight With a proud Turk , who from Argier was sent , And swiftly gave them chase , to the intent That they might take , and ransack , and enthral The Bodies , Minds , and Christian Souls of all . But those base Pagans never can prevail , If once our English Banners them assail . Our worthy Captain first did cause to fly Two little Ships that by him close did lie ; Who from the fury of the Foes did glide , Being befriended by Night , Wind , and Tide . Then being ready , and his Guns run out , He then prepared for a bloody Bout ; Like Thunder , Lightning , and a Tempest great ; Like Raging Waves , which on the Rocks do bea Ev'n so our Captain , at his drawing nigh , Volleys Discharg'd at his proud Enemy ; The Waves did tremble , and the Heavens blush , When these two Champions did together rush . The Turks they board us , knowing not the strength Of Valiant English , which they felt at length : Presumption prompt them on to grapple strong , Which was too hight to be endur'd long ; For being on Deck , some in the Air did fly , Others our warlike Engines forc'd to die : Yet six remain'd , which almost laid us waste , By cutting Sails and Rigging from our Mass For which bold fact , two made the Sea their grave ; The rest cry'd Quarter , which we freely gave . There might you see their Bodies go to wreck , Heads , Arms and Legs bestrew'd upon the Deck . This was their fate , which then they could not shun , Their Blood did off the Deck , like water , run . Our Men between Decks with their great Guns tore And rend the Hull of the Turks Ship so soar , Made them leave off , and from our sides to shrink , Lest they should all of the Salt-water drink ; Their Ship lying by to stop her Leaks , and then Resolves to prove our Valour once again . Our Seamen bold , that never daunted were , To their proud Foes like Lions did appear , Threatening destruction , while a lucky Gun Made their Ship tremble , and our sides to shun ; Not once more daring to approach us nigh , But from us at a distance far to lie . The Night came on , a pleasant Gale appears , They left each other ; ours directly steers To her desired Por safely arriv'd Our English Captain , and all that surviv'd . Sixteen were wounded , and three kill'd outright ; The Ship soar Shatterd , and Sails burned in fight ; Only the Spirit and Mainsail left untore , Which brought them safely to our English shore : Where being arriv'd , were by his Majesty , And Royal Duke , welcom'd most graciously . For which brave Act the King and Order gave The Captain should a Chain and Medal have . The Merchant's did with honour him commend , Because their Goods he bravely did defend . He was not daunted with their mighty Force , 'Twas not their power could retard his Course . 'Tis Valour , a good Cause , and Manlike Sp'rit That stirs up truly Valiant Men to fight . J.F. Sold by John Favel in Exchange-Alley in Cornhil , over against the Royal Exchange , 1671. 