THE DELIQUIUM : OR , The Grievances of the Nation DISCOVERED IN A DREAM . FRom Evenings Coffee , lac'd with long Argument Of the Kings Power and Rights of Parliament , And hot-brain'd Company , who make it their Vocation , Waving their own , to mind th' Affairs o' th' Nation ; Whose Noddles for these many Months have been Hatchers of Grievances unfelt , unseen ; Ill-manner'd Fools , whose Ignorance is Hate , They understand not , therefore blame the State . Their real Grievance is their want of sense , Beasts in all things but in Obedience . Cloy'd with their noisy Cant ( in equal plighted Of laughter , scorn , and grief ) I bid good nigh Troubl'd to think of England's Grand Disease , Groaning with th' Burden of such Sots as these , To bed I went , where restless long I lay , Despair'd of Sleep , and waited for the day : Lord ! ( said I ) must our Monarch ne're have rest ? The more indulgent , th' more he is oppressed With Fools that know not , think not what they want ; Their Desire granted , they'l soon cure the Gran Yet the King's still in fault ! methinks I see Tears flowing down the Cheeks of Majesty . If I am troubled , how much more is He , Who bears the burden of their Calumny ? Thus lay I long , my Soul quite spent with Sighs , When Sleep insensibly stole o're my Eyes . From lump of Flesh unchain'd , methought my Soul Through Dark Unwholesome Foggy Mists did roll , Horror increasing still , methought I came To the dire Mansions of Eternal Flame , The Gates of Brass transparent were , and thence Flew Azure Flames with Smoke of nauseous stench , With a confused noise of Howls and Groans , Such as would melt ( if anything can ) Stones . The horror quell'd my Spirit , that I stood 'Maz'd and insensitive as Stone or Wood , Till by a Friend reviv'd ; Cheer thee , quoth he , This place as yet is not design'd for thee . He led me through the Gates , where lo , a place , Larger then all this lower World's vast space , The Torments gave some light ( else dark as night ) A pale bituminous discolour'd Light , Myriads of wretched Souls my Fancy view'd , Weltering in Flames , with Pitch and Brimstone strew'd . Just at the Gate th' Infernal Senate sat ; For know , that Hell's no Kingdom , but a State ; A Democractick State ; for it affords ( As I was told ) no King nor House of Lords : Tho' Lucifer's a kind of Prince , he sat But Chairman , or rather Speaker to the State ; A Troop of Ghastly Fiends surround his Chair , All which of a Select Committee were , Who ( having played their Devils part so well ) Had been Elected Burgesses of Hell : Two who were lately to Eutopia sent , Stood now for Members of the Parliament . O Yes was strait proclaim'd ; Appear , appear , You that are Candidates ; mighty Lucifer Assures his Vote for him who merits best For his Eutopia Service ; All the rest To Lucifer with formal Bows submit ; They would consent to what His Grace thought fit . Python appear'd ; Great Sir , said he , since I Went with this Honourable House's Embassy , T' Eutopia , I ha' brought that Realm to be An't please Your Grace , in all Conformity To Your desires ; But first I must confess Letters of Credence from his Holiness ( Your Grace's Correspondent ) I procur'd To some Lords there ; whom I before insur'd By my Ignatian Friends ; O! they're a Crew Of the most hearty , diligent and true , Zealous unwearied Boys , to propagate What may conduce to th' Good of this Our State : Had they but Cunning equal to their Will , This Place with Humane Souls they'd quickly fill ; You'd need no other Fiends : These did my work , And privily about the Realm did lurk : Some ign'rant Bigots they engag'd , and some Only with th' pleasing pride of Martyrdom ; Some by Ambition's Bait were finely caught , All things at once boldly to venture a But I confess , though all my Art I try'd To bring the Great Almanzor to Our side , I fail'd ; But then I god it buz'd that He Would soon make one in the Conspiracy : This tickl'd and engag'd them in that PLOT Which by th' Eutopians ne'r will be forgotten . In short , This Honourable House knows well How I've deserv'd a Burgess-ship in Hell ; If not , we've some Jesuits here can tell . Then through the House a murmuring Applause Shew'd that they all inclin'd to Python's Cause . When Syphax , th' other Candidate appear'd , Great Sir , said he , I hope my Cause ( when herd ) Will gain your suffrage ; Mighty Sir , You know M'Opponent's method was a while ago Us'd by Cantatogax , Your Agent then To th' same Realms , though but in vain ; since when Others with like Effects have us'd it ; I Us'd the experienc'd Rule , Presbytery : This was the method , Mighty Lucifer ! That brought Ten thousand Rebel Souls a year For twenty years together to this place , For Python's part , an't please Your Grace , He hatch't a Plot I must confess ; but what Effects did this his so much talked of Plot Produce ? Why faith he e'en sent here no more Than those who were Your Grace's own before . For my own part , I to the House will give Of all my Actions a short Narrative . In grave and comely Hypocritic Dress , Bearing the outward from of Godliness , I cloath'd myself , and to Eutopia went , Haunted the City , Court and Parliament ; And in short time pick'd up a numerous Crew Of all Religions ; every Sect a few : I made all those my own who took great pains To make their seeming Godliness their gains : All those who use Religion for a fashion , Or seen to thrive by th' ruin of the Nation ; All who'd at Court their expectations crossed , Or by ill manners had Preferments los All those who were engag'd in the late Broils , In the King's Death and the three Nations Spoils , And had this King's late Act of Grace abus'd By their unnatural Ingratitude : All who had lost their Games , and now would fain , For their own turn , have the Cards dealt again . I found one fit at last to steer these right , A Favourite of theirs , a much fam'd Wight , Capricio call'd , and thereby hangs a Tale , Meager his Visage is , his Face as pale As his Deeds black ; Dame Nature sure design'd That by his outside men might know his mind : Hell's in his Body , and his shrivl'd Skin Seems dropping from his rotten Bones within : His Corrupt Tortur'd Body does convey Fresh Spleen and Rancour to his Heart each day ; Which lest it shou'd o'reflow , or by mishap Be overcharg'd from Sun or Fleece , a Tap Is in his Body fix'd , with curious Art , Which from his double Envy-canker'd heart , By pumping , does exhaust th' exundant Juice , Reserving still enough for's daily use . With this half Fiend I many Consults had , And we at last this Resolution made : Almanzor's due Succession to oppose , Among his many unprovoked Foes : We chosen young Marcion , not for any love , But to undo the Youth , as time will prove : Poor easy Prince , he little thinks that we Prostituteth is his weak Credulity To our own use , to Anarchize the State , And hasten his too soon intended Fate : Disgusted Lords we god some two or three , To put their helping hands to Anarchy . among the rest one Libertino nam'd , Of him I must confess I was asham'd , His vicious Life did much disgrace the Cause ; But 'twas enough , his hate to King , Church , Laws , And Government in general , drew the rude Unthinking , Jealous , Headlong Multitude To esteem him so that he this Title bears , One of the Protestant Eutopian Peers . With these in close Cabals sometime I pass'd , And forg'd a feasible Design at las 'Twas thought without some provocation 'twere Not fit our Cause in public should appear : I pitch'd upon a Rogue , the truth to tell , Has not his Fellow even here in Hell , Upon our Crew we forg'd a Plot , which he First brought to light ; A Re-discovery He made as soon , Swore to , and was believ'd , Then our good Party found themselves aggriev'd , And cry'd aloud , THESE TORY'S , Brethren , see ; Behold , we say , the Lords Delivery . This was some Bishop sure , or Masquerader . Soon after this a Son accus'd his Father ; Forward and backwards Swears , at last he Vows , Sir , He was subborn'd by that same Papist Towzer . Things went on well , and now they thought 'twas time The Ladder of Rebellion they should climb : The Senate sat ; High for the Good Old Cause , Magna Charta , and Fundamental Laws , No Arbitrary Power , but We must give Necessary Limits to Prerogative , Though the King mayn't , yet We may break the Laws , Punish at pleasure , though wit THE DELIQUIUM : OR , The Grievances of the Nation DISCOVERED IN A DREAM . FRom Evenings Coffee , lac'd with long Argument Of the Kings Power and Rights of Parliament , And hot-brain'd Company , who make it their Vocation , Waving their own , to mind th' Affairs o' th' Nation ; Whose Noddles for these many Months have been Hatchers of Grievances unfelt , unseen ; Ill-manner'd Fools , whose Ignorance is Hate , They understand not , therefore blame the State . Their real Grievance is their want of sense , Beasts in all things but in Obedience . Cloy'd with their noisy Cant ( in equal plighted Of laughter , scorn , and grief ) I bid good nigh Troubl'd to think of England's Grand Disease , Groaning with th' Burden of such Sots as these , To bed I went , where restless long I lay , Despair'd of Sleep , and waited for the day : Lord ! ( said I ) must our Monarch ne're have rest ? The more indulgent , th' more he is oppressed With Fools that know not , think not what they want ; Their Desire granted , they'l soon cure the Gran Yet the King's still in fault ! methinks I see Tears flowing down the Cheeks of Majesty . If I am troubled , how much more is He , Who bears the burden of their Calumny ? Thus lay I long , my Soul quite spent with Sighs , When Sleep insensibly stole o're my Eyes . From lump of Flesh unchain'd , methought my Soul Through Dark Unwholesome Foggy Mists did roll , Horror increasing still , methought I came To the dire Mansions of Eternal Flame , The Gates of Brass transparent were , and thence Flew Azure Flames with Smoke of nauseous stench , With a confused noise of Howls and Groans , Such as would melt ( if anything can ) Stones . The horror quell'd my Spirit , that I stood 'Maz'd and insensitive as Stone or Wood , Till by a Friend reviv'd ; Cheer thee , quoth he , This place as yet is not design'd for thee . He led me through the Gates , where lo , a place , Larger then all this lower World's vast space , The Torments gave some light ( else dark as night ) A pale bituminous discolour'd Light , Myriads of wretched Souls my Fancy view'd , Weltering in Flames , with Pitch and Brimstone strew'd . Just at the Gate th' Infernal Senate sat ; For know , that Hell's no Kingdom , but a State ; A Democractick State ; for it affords ( As I was told ) no King nor House of Lords : Tho' Lucifer's a kind of Prince , he sat But Chairman , or rather Speaker to the State ; A Troop of Ghastly Fiends surround his Chair , All which of a Select Committee were , Who ( having played their Devils part so well ) Had been Elected Burgesses of Hell : Two who were lately to Eutopia sent , Stood now for Members of the Parliament . O Yes was strait proclaim'd ; Appear , appear , You that are Candidates ; mighty Lucifer Assures his Vote for him who merits best For his Eutopia Service ; All the rest To Lucifer with formal Bows submit ; They would consent to what His Grace thought fit . Python appear'd ; Great Sir , said he , since I Went with this Honourable House's Embassy , T' Eutopia , I ha' brought that Realm to be An't please Your Grace , in all Conformity To Your desires ; But first I must confess Letters of Credence from his Holiness ( Your Grace's Correspondent ) I procur'd To some Lords there ; whom I before insur'd By my Ignatian Friends ; O! they're a Crew Of the most hearty , diligent and true , Zealous unwearied Boys , to propagate What may conduce to th' Good of this Our State : Had they but Cunning equal to their Will , This Place with Humane Souls they'd quickly fill ; You'd need no other Fiends : These did my work , And privily about the Realm did lurk : Some ign'rant Bigots they engag'd , and some Only with th' pleasing pride of Martyrdom ; Some by Ambition's Bait were finely caught , All things at once boldly to venture a But I confess , though all my Art I try'd To bring the Great Almanzor to Our side , I fail'd ; But then I god it buz'd that He Would soon make one in the Conspiracy : This tickl'd and engag'd them in that PLOT Which by th' Eutopians ne'r will be forgotten . In short , This Honourable House knows well How I've deserv'd a Burgess-ship in Hell ; If not , we've some Jesuits here can tell . Then through the House a murmuring Applause Shew'd that they all inclin'd to Python's Cause . When Syphax , th' other Candidate appear'd , Great Sir , said he , I hope my Cause ( when herd ) Will gain your suffrage ; Mighty Sir , You know M'Opponent's method was a while ago Us'd by Cantatogax , Your Agent then To th' same Realms , though but in vain ; since when Others with like Effects have us'd it ; I Us'd the experienc'd Rule , Presbytery : This was the method , Mighty Lucifer ! That brought Ten thousand Rebel Souls a year For twenty years together to this place , For Python's part , an't please Your Grace , He hatch't a Plot I must confess ; but what Effects did this his so much talked of Plot Produce ? Why faith he e'en sent here no more Than those who were Your Grace's own before . For my own part , I to the House will give Of all my Actions a short Narrative . In grave and comely Hypocritic Dress , Bearing the outward from of Godliness , I cloath'd myself , and to Eutopia went , Haunted the City , Court and Parliament ; And in short time pick'd up a numerous Crew Of all Religions ; every Sect a few : I made all those my own who took great pains To make their seeming Godliness their gains : All those who use Religion for a fashion , Or seen to thrive by th' ruin of the Nation ; All who'd at Court their expectations crossed , Or by ill manners had Preferments los All those who were engag'd in the late Broils , In the King's Death and the three Nations Spoils , And had this King's late Act of Grace abus'd By their unnatural Ingratitude : All who had lost their Games , and now would fain , For their own turn , have the Cards dealt again . I found one fit at last to steer these right , A Favourite of theirs , a much fam'd Wight , Capricio call'd , and thereby hangs a Tale , Meager his Visage is , his Face as pale As his Deeds black ; Dame Nature sure design'd That by his outside men might know his mind : Hell's in his Body , and his shrivl'd Skin Seems dropping from his rotten Bones within : His Corrupt Tortur'd Body does convey Fresh Spleen and Rancour to his Heart each day ; Which lest it shou'd o'reflow , or by mishap Be overcharg'd from Sun or Fleece , a Tap Is in his Body fix'd , with curious Art , Which from his double Envy-canker'd heart , By pumping , does exhaust th' exundant Juice , Reserving still enough for's daily use . With this half Fiend I many Consults had , And we at last this Resolution made : Almanzor's due Succession to oppose , Among his many unprovoked Foes : We chosen young Marcion , not for any love , But to undo the Youth , as time will prove : Poor easy Prince , he little thinks that we Prostituteth is his weak Credulity To our own use , to Anarchize the State , And hasten his too soon intended Fate : Disgusted Lords we god some two or three , To put their helping hands to Anarchy . among the rest one Libertino nam'd , Of him I must confess I was asham'd , His vicious Life did much disgrace the Cause ; But 'twas enough , his hate to King , Church , Laws , And Government in general , drew the rude Unthinking , Jealous , Headlong Multitude To esteem him so that he this Title bears , One of the Protestant Eutopian Peers . With these in close Cabals sometime I pass'd , And forg'd a feasible Design at las 'Twas thought without some provocation 'twere Not fit our Cause in public should appear : I pitch'd upon a Rogue , the truth to tell , Has not his Fellow even here in Hell , Upon our Crew we forg'd a Plot , which he First brought to light ; A Re-discovery He made as soon , Swore to , and was believ'd , Then our good Party found themselves aggriev'd , And cry'd aloud , THESE TORY'S , Brethren , see ; Behold , we say , the Lords Delivery . This was some Bishop sure , or Masquerader . Soon after this a Son accus'd his Father ; Forward and backwards Swears , at last he Vows , Sir , He was subborn'd by that same Papist Towzer . Things went on well , and now they thought 'twas time The Ladder of Rebellion they should climb : The Senate sat ; High for the Good Old Cause , Magna Charta , and Fundamental Laws , No Arbitrary Power , but We must give Necessary Limits to Prerogative , Though the King mayn't , yet We may break the Laws , Punish at pleasure , though without a Cause ; Then must Almanzor be excluded , He Has too much Spirit , too much bravery ; They must and will have presently Redress , Of a long Beadroll of Grievances . And these are such as the King won't , nor can't , Nature and Conscience will not let him gran If not , no Money , Sirs , what e're come on't ; A Fig for Foreign Foes , so the King want . Councillors must be tax'd , and most of all Hali , whom they had nought to charge with all , But only 'cause he could discern the Weather , And judge when Elements would clash together ; They do not think it safe that any Lord That has but sense , should fit at Council-Board ; Those that fit there should in their Foreheads have Their Beast-ships Mark of either Fool or Knave ; Who lov'd the King was Voted straight to be Betrayer of the Subject's Liberty , And their old long-lov'd Darling Property . Capricio tells them next , they want a Prince Fit to be trusted with the Rule ; and since The present King's not such , they think 'twere fit That they be trusted both with Him and It. In short , I've brought that Kingdom , now of late , In all Conformity so near our State , That whosoever sees both , will surely Swear 'Tis and exact true Pattern of This here . Then such loud shouts from all the Senate came , That I awak'd , and found it but a Dream . FINIS . hout a Cause ; Then must Almanzor be excluded , He Has too much Spirit , too much bravery ; They must and will have presently Redress , Of a long Beadroll of Grievances . And these are such as the King won't , nor can't , Nature and Conscience will not let him gran If not , no Money , Sirs , what e're come on't ; A Fig for Foreign Foes , so the King want . Councillors must be tax'd , and most of all Hali , whom they had nought to charge with all , But only 'cause he could discern the Weather , And judge when Elements would clash together ; They do not think it safe that any Lord That has but sense , should fit at Council-Board ; Those that fit there should in their Foreheads have Their Beast-ships Mark of either Fool or Knave ; Who lov'd the King was Voted straight to be Betrayer of the Subject's Liberty , And their old long-lov'd Darling Property . Capricio tells them next , they want a Prince Fit to be trusted with the Rule ; and since The present King's not such , they think 'twere fit That they be trusted both with Him and It. In short , I've brought that Kingdom , now of late , In all Conformity so near our State , That whosoever sees both , will surely Swear 'Tis and exact true Pattern of This here . Then such loud shouts from all the Senate came , That I awak'd , and found it but a Dream . FINIS . 