The Scotch Lover's Lamentation : OR , GILDEROY's Last FAREWEL . To and excellent new Tune , much in request . Licensed according to Order . GIlderoy was a bonny Boy , had roses tull his shun , His stockings made of the finest silk , his garters hanging duwn : It was a comely sighed to see , he were so trim a Boy ; He was my Joy and Heart's Delight , my handsome Gilderoy . O , sick a charming eyes he had , a breath as sweet as rose , He never wore a Highland-plad , but costly silken clothes : He gain'd the love of Ladies gay , there's none to him was coy ; Ah , way's me , I'm mourn this day for my dear Gilderoy . My Gilderoy and I was born both in one Town together , Not passing seven years ago , since one did love each other : Our Daddies and our Mammies both , were cloath'd with much joy , To think upon the bridal-day , betwixt I and my Gilderoy . For Gilderoy , that Love of mine , geud faith I'm freely bought A wedding-sark of Holland fine , with silk in flowers wrought ; And he gave me a wedding-ring , which I receiv'd with joy ; No Lads or Lasses e'er could sing , like my sweet Gilderoy . In much joy we spent our time , till we was both fifteen , Then gently he did lay me down , among the leaves so green ; When he had done what he could do , he rose and gang'd his woy , But ever since I lov'd the Man , my handsome Gilderoy . While we did both together play , he kiss'd me o're and o're ; Geud faith it was as blithe a day , as e'er I saw before ; He fill'd my heart in e'ry vein , with love and much joy ; But when shall I behold again , mine own sweet Gilderoy ? 'Tis pity Men should e'er be hang'd , that takes up Women's geer , Or for their pelfering sheep or calves , or stealing cow or mare ; Had not our laws been made so strict , I'd never lost my Joy , Who was my Love and Heart's Delight , my handsome Gilderoy . 'Cause Gilderoy had done amiss , must he be punish'd then ? What kind of cruelty is this , to hang such handsome Men ? The Flower of the Scotish Land , a sweet and lively Boy , He likewise had a Lady's hand , my handsome Gilderoy . At Leith they took my Gilderoy , and there , God wot , they boun'd him , Carry'd him to fair Edenburgh , and there , God wot , they hang'd him , They hang'd him up above the rest , he was so trim a Boy , My only Love and Heart's Delight , my handsome Gilderoy . Thus having yielded up his breath , in cyprus he was laid ; Then for my Dearest , after death , a funeral I made ; Over his grave a marblestone I fixed for my Joy ; Now I am left to weep alone , for my dear Gilderoy . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . The Scotch Lover's Lamentation : OR , GILDEROY's Last FAREWEL . To and excellent new Tune , much in request . Licensed according to Order . GIlderoy was a bonny Boy , had roses tull his shun , His stockings made of the finest silk , his garters hanging duwn : It was a comely sighed to see , he were so trim a Boy ; He was my Joy and Heart's Delight , my handsome Gilderoy . O , sick a charming eyes he had , a breath as sweet as rose , He never wore a Highland-plad , but costly silken clothes : He gain'd the love of Ladies gay , there's none to him was coy ; Ah , way's me , I'm mourn this day for my dear Gilderoy . My Gilderoy and I was born both in one Town together , Not passing seven years ago , since one did love each other : Our Daddies and our Mammies both , were cloath'd with much joy , To think upon the bridal-day , betwixt I and my Gilderoy . For Gilderoy , that Love of mine , geud faith I'm freely bought A wedding-sark of Holland fine , with silk in flowers wrought ; And he gave me a wedding-ring , which I receiv'd with joy ; No Lads or Lasses e'er could sing , like my sweet Gilderoy . In much joy we spent our time , till we was both fifteen , Then gently he did lay me down , among the leaves so green ; When he had done what he could do , he rose and gang'd his woy , But ever since I lov'd the Man , my handsome Gilderoy . While we did both together play , he kiss'd me o're and o're ; Geud faith it was as blithe a day , as e'er I saw before ; He fill'd my heart in e'ry vein , with love and much joy ; But when shall I behold again , mine own sweet Gilderoy ? 'Tis pity Men should e'er be hang'd , that takes up Women's geer , Or for their pelfering sheep or calves , or stealing cow or mare ; Had not our laws been made so strict , I'd never lost my Joy , Who was my Love and Heart's Delight , my handsome Gilderoy . 'Cause Gilderoy had done amiss , must he be punish'd then ? What kind of cruelty is this , to hang such handsome Men ? The Flower of the Scotish Land , a sweet and lively Boy , He likewise had a Lady's hand , my handsome Gilderoy . At Leith they took my Gilderoy , and there , God wot , they boun'd him , Carry'd him to fair Edenburgh , and there , God wot , they hang'd him , They hang'd him up above the rest , he was so trim a Boy , My only Love and Heart's Delight , my handsome Gilderoy . Thus having yielded up his breath , in cyprus he was laid ; Then for my Dearest , after death , a funeral I made ; Over his grave a marblestone I fixed for my Joy ; Now I am left to weep alone , for my dear Gilderoy . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . 