THE TRUE Protestant Lettany . Hos fuge : Pestis enim nulla hac immanior : Him sunt Faex hominum , fons nequitiae , Sentina Malorum . FROM such as the honest Intentions oppose Of our true hearted Friends , and are led by the Nose , By the specious Pretences and Wiles of our Foes : Libera Nos Domine . From such as the Protestant Cause would betray , And give up their Lives to the Pope for a prey ; If they will not fell Heaven as freely as they : Libera Nos . From Judges oppressed with such dimness of sighed , That they cannot discern what is wrong or what's right ; If a Spiders Gold-Web do but hang in their ligh Libera Nos . From those , who to finish their Treasons begun , When they fear'd that their Work would be left but half done ; Did consult by the Stars how to darken out Sun : Libera Nos . From Persons , who under a handsome Disguise , Would persuade us the only way to be wise , Is to forfeit our Reason and put out our Eyes : Libera Nos . From those who would Learnedly make it appear , That 'tis Factious either to shun or to fear The most eminent Dangers , though never so near : Libera Nos . From Infallible Fops , who would make us believe We must pin our Faith to their Catholic Slieve , Till we suffer a Bondage beyond a Reprieve : Libera Nos . From the Factors of Room , who hither are sent , To raise causeless dislikes of the Kings Government ; And the separate him and his Parliament Libera Nos . From such as will whisper the Traitors Defence , And do own they believe their avouch'd Innocence , Thereby to disparage the Kings Evidence : Libera Nos . From Powis and Peters , and all the whole Crew , And from all that would have them come short of their endue ; From Friars and Priests , and from Jesuits too : Libera Nos . And lastly from all that wish ill to the King , Or Popery into this Nation would bring ; Who merit no less than a Paddington Swing . Libera Nos . THE TRUE Protestant Lettany . Hos fuge : Pestis enim nulla hac immanior : Him sunt Faex hominum , fons nequitiae , Sentina Malorum . FROM such as the honest Intentions oppose Of our true hearted Friends , and are led by the Nose , By the specious Pretences and Wiles of our Foes : Libera Nos Domine . From such as the Protestant Cause would betray , And give up their Lives to the Pope for a prey ; If they will not fell Heaven as freely as they : Libera Nos . From Judges oppressed with such dimness of sighed , That they cannot discern what is wrong or what's right ; If a Spiders Gold-Web do but hang in their ligh Libera Nos . From those , who to finish their Treasons begun , When they fear'd that their Work would be left but half done ; Did consult by the Stars how to darken out Sun : Libera Nos . From Persons , who under a handsome Disguise , Would persuade us the only way to be wise , Is to forfeit our Reason and put out our Eyes : Libera Nos . From those who would Learnedly make it appear , That 'tis Factious either to shun or to fear The most eminent Dangers , though never so near : Libera Nos . From Infallible Fops , who would make us believe We must pin our Faith to their Catholic Slieve , Till we suffer a Bondage beyond a Reprieve : Libera Nos . From the Factors of Room , who hither are sent , To raise causeless dislikes of the Kings Government ; And the separate him and his Parliament Libera Nos . From such as will whisper the Traitors Defence , And do own they believe their avouch'd Innocence , Thereby to disparage the Kings Evidence : Libera Nos . From Powis and Peters , and all the whole Crew , And from all that would have them come short of their endue ; From Friars and Priests , and from Jesuits too : Libera Nos . And lastly from all that wish ill to the King , Or Popery into this Nation would bring ; Who merit no less than a Paddington Swing . Libera Nos . 