THE Cavalier's Litany . FRom Shuttlecock Sh - that to Nantz is inclin'd , From popular Fop , and the rest of the Kind ; Who all shall be Knights when the Devil is blind . Libera Nos Domine . From P ---- Spouse the Speaker of State , From Creswells Gallant , and from Colledge's Fate ; From all that our Peace and Prosperity hate Libera etc From Owens old Tub , and from Baxte's Belief , From Mobile's Majesty Reigning in chief ; From our Wives paying Parsons by playing the Thief . Libera etc From a Popish black Cloak in a Protestant Cut , From going to Bed with the Gripes in my Gut ; From rising next Morning with all our Throats Cut . Libera etc From the Traitors Caball , and the fine Rare-show , From Sir Thomas and Robert , that all the Town know ; From the Damnable Oaths of cursed T.O. Libera etc From H ---- d's pale Ghost , that frighted the Doctor , From incest with B ---- y , from him that late K -- tO . her ; From a Pocky young Lord , from a Pimp and a Procter Libera etc From those that last voted and Act for Exclusion , From those on Prerogative made and Intrusion ; From such as would bring the whole world in confusion . Libera etc From keeping the King from borrowing of Coin , Though his wants should be great as ever were mine ; From putting up Perkin to thwar't the right Line . Libera etc From sucking Sedition from Anthonies Tap , From a Hypocrites pray in a black and white Cap ; From raising our Honour by getting a Clap. Libera etc From Dining with Bethel and Supping with C ---- n , From a lash with the quill of Satirical Dryden , From a high metl'd Whigthat was kick't at Low-Layton . Libera etc From a sort that Associate on purpose to sham us , From a Jury that brings in all Bills Ignoramus ; From the pitiful Rogues that do swear so G . Dam'us . Libera etc From C ---- sh and G ---- worser P ---- n WORSER ---- s , From crying no North and obstructing free choice From Stealing Communion and making no Noise . Libera etc From Sighing and Whining and Pining and Fears , That the Pocky old Plot should last 99 years ; From half so much hazard as some Bodies Ears . Libera etc From a Brumisham Saint and a serious Church Whig , From a Puritan Soul that abominates big ; From the 41 Rogues that would hum the old Gig . Libera etc Fram a Presbiter-Pope from Turk and from Tarter , From hanging ones self in a Rope or a Garter ; From Fools that defend and old forfeited Charter . Libera etc From a pretty conceit that the way to be quiet , Is raising Sedition Rebellion and Riot ; From clubbing to Feast , and be kept from our Diet. Libera etc From a Rabble and Rout with a Noise to attend on't , From the pains of the Gout and never to mend on't ; From a guilded Jack-Chain with a R --- at the end on't . Libera etc From all that do envy our Bells' when they Ring , And Organs and those that in Surplices sing ; From all that refuse a good Health to the King . Libera Nos Domine . FINIS . London , Printed for Charles Brome , 1682. THE Cavalier's Litany . FRom Shuttlecock Sh - that to Nantz is inclin'd , From popular Fop , and the rest of the Kind ; Who all shall be Knights when the Devil is blind . Libera Nos Domine . From P ---- Spouse the Speaker of State , From Creswells Gallant , and from Colledge's Fate ; From all that our Peace and Prosperity hate Libera etc From Owens old Tub , and from Baxte's Belief , From Mobile's Majesty Reigning in chief ; From our Wives paying Parsons by playing the Thief . Libera etc From a Popish black Cloak in a Protestant Cut , From going to Bed with the Gripes in my Gut ; From rising next Morning with all our Throats Cut . Libera etc From the Traitors Caball , and the fine Rare-show , From Sir Thomas and Robert , that all the Town know ; From the Damnable Oaths of cursed T.O. Libera etc From H ---- d's pale Ghost , that frighted the Doctor , From incest with B ---- y , from him that late K -- tO . her ; From a Pocky young Lord , from a Pimp and a Procter Libera etc From those that last voted and Act for Exclusion , From those on Prerogative made and Intrusion ; From such as would bring the whole world in confusion . Libera etc From keeping the King from borrowing of Coin , Though his wants should be great as ever were mine ; From putting up Perkin to thwar't the right Line . Libera etc From sucking Sedition from Anthonies Tap , From a Hypocrites pray in a black and white Cap ; From raising our Honour by getting a Clap. Libera etc From Dining with Bethel and Supping with C ---- n , From a lash with the quill of Satirical Dryden , From a high metl'd Whigthat was kick't at Low-Layton . Libera etc From a sort that Associate on purpose to sham us , From a Jury that brings in all Bills Ignoramus ; From the pitiful Rogues that do swear so G . Dam'us . Libera etc From C ---- sh and G ---- worser P ---- n WORSER ---- s , From crying no North and obstructing free choice From Stealing Communion and making no Noise . Libera etc From Sighing and Whining and Pining and Fears , That the Pocky old Plot should last 99 years ; From half so much hazard as some Bodies Ears . Libera etc From a Brumisham Saint and a serious Church Whig , From a Puritan Soul that abominates big ; From the 41 Rogues that would hum the old Gig . Libera etc Fram a Presbiter-Pope from Turk and from Tarter , From hanging ones self in a Rope or a Garter ; From Fools that defend and old forfeited Charter . Libera etc From a pretty conceit that the way to be quiet , Is raising Sedition Rebellion and Riot ; From clubbing to Feast , and be kept from our Diet. Libera etc From a Rabble and Rout with a Noise to attend on't , From the pains of the Gout and never to mend on't ; From a guilded Jack-Chain with a R --- at the end on't . Libera etc From all that do envy our Bells' when they Ring , And Organs and those that in Surplices sing ; From all that refuse a good Health to the King . Libera Nos Domine . FINIS . London , Printed for Charles Brome , 1682. 