The Sense of the Oxford-Junto , Concerning the late Treaty ; wherein the several Reasons are delivered , why they could not conclude a Peace with the Parliament And Published for the Satisfaction of the whole Kingdom . GIve ear ( beloved Countrymen ) Who long so much for Peace , And guess a Treaty th' only means The Kingdom to release : Be not mistaken thus to think ; For we were sent so far As Uxbridge , but to swear and drink , And not to end the War . Through our dissembling Impudence Your hearts ( we know ) were full Of Joy , and did us true believe , Whereas we mean't to Gull : What though the Kingdom bleeding lie , Yet Peace is out of season , And that Bugbear we do defy For many a weighty reason . First , I'le no Peace , says Rupert ; Good Uncle , do not think , That I can leave your Kingdom so While there is any chincke : You know for Plunder I did come With Germane tag and rag ; And I'le have more ere I go home Again unto the Hague . Doe ( Brother ) doe , says Maurice , I like the Humour deer , And could contented be to have The War last many a year : Let's keep us still on English ground , And for ourselves create Possessions of as large a bound , As the Palatinate . Then from his Pen starts Digby , And cries 't was Princely spoken , Since hope there was that France would send Ten thousand for a token : Beside , the Gallant Irish vow To pawn their Praying Beads , Rather than we should yield them now A Peace , to loose our Heals . 'Tis true ( my Son ) quoth Bristoll , Then write a Declaration Of our late Treating , which wee'l send To cheat each foreign Nation : For we must make the world believe , None more for Peace requested Than we , or else they'l laugh in sleeve , And we shall be detested . But Brother mine , says Cottington , I am Lord Treasurer ; Yet not one Penny can produce For to maintain the War : And now the tottering State of Spaine Can spare us no relief , I live to bear the Bag in vain , And may die like a Thief . Fie , fie my Lord , then Winchester Bids him not to despair , And cheers him with large Rodomonts , Much like a Wise men Heir : Il'e do my best to keep off Peace , And stoutly put all Care by ; For if from Basing they me chase , Il'e run to my Lord of Darby . Darby , He will do anything , So they the War prolong , If that his Countess give him leave ; For she at home's most strong : But if that Latham yielded be , And they escape well can , Her , and these two Wits , you may see Reign in the I'll of Man. And I , Lord Paulet , would be glad To have the War still spun out , Because I know from Basing-house The Fool at length will run ou Then there to have Command in chief I'me sure will be my fate ; And like a good brotherly Thief , Beg him and his Estate . 'Tis a good Christian act ( my Lord ) I Hopton do allow it ; For I was once esteem'd a Saint , As all the World does know i And for this Name more War I'le wage , Till I it gain from Room ; So Traitors shall a Pilgrimage Make yearly to my Tomb . And I , Duke Lennox , will contend , As long as I do live , With Papists how to raise and stretch The Kings Prerogative : Then I may rage and domineer Over my Countrymen , Or else I shall be sham'd t'appear In Scotland ere again . A fig ( my Lord ) says Capel , The Scots we soon will beat ; However , let us go and seem As if we meant to Trea They cut my Woods , both Branch and Boughs , My Timber all is fallen , As if they were to roast the Cows Whichever I have stolen . And I ( quoth Kingston ) am undone , Except we fight it out ; Because for Bishops I did plead , The Vulgar will me flou Beside , my Father money lent Unto the King great store ; Unless we slave the Parliament , I ne're shall see it more . Who would not fight , cries Dunsmore , And Earl to be enstil'd ? To loose a Lordship , Hatton says , Would make a Courtier wild : Culpepper , he grows hight i'th mouth , Damnes Peace , as if he meant , Rather than not to be a Lord , Fight to be King of Kent . Sir Nicholas , he to treat will go , But swears he shall miscarry ; The very thought of Peace will spoil Him for a Secretary . He with them thus conditions then , That if they stay the longer , For him to choose some other man Of constitution stronger . Then up a Bench of Lawyers stand , And in their Judgement gave , 'Twas fit Sir Edward Nicholas might His Habeas Corpus have : Ned Hide , and Lane , they were the chief , I need to name no more , Who for their Knighthood's stood so stiff , And shut Peace out of door . But all to fight for the known Laws , As Littleton maintains ; Who strove to steal away the Seal , Yet god nothing for his pains : For when the man to Oxford came , They fell to swear and curse , And asked him if he did not shame To bring and empty Purse . But he at length in favour crept Among the Medley Rout , And is against the name of Peace As zealous and as stou An't please your Majesty , says he , If wisely you will deal , The Ordnance still must mounted be , They will make good the Seal . And I ( my Liege ) says Heath , affirm None better can than these , Restore again the Chancery , Your Bench , or Common Pleasant : Fight on , by Law Il'e make it good , Pull down the Senate's pride ; It is not fit a Treaty should This difference decide . Then spoke Armagh , if Law it be , I'le prove it Gospel too , By such a knotty Syllogism As no man shall undo : In Bishops breasts all truth does rest , Scorn Treating then , and come ; Wee'l give each man a hallow'd crest , And Consecrated drum . And I ( quoth Duppa ) do protest , That they which but begin To think of pulling Bishops down Commit a heinous since : What a cursed thing then Treating is , How odious is Peace , Which envies Churchmen worldly bliss , Great honours , pride , and ease ! And Stewart vows hee'l be content Much rather soon to die , Than let his Conscience witness bear Unto Presbytery : What though it does appear more right , I never will confess ? Let's Treat in show , break off , and fight , Upon advantages . But hark you ( Sirs ) says Dorset , Do anything you please ; Yet for one reason I desire , That we might have a Peace : I cannot act a Soldiers part , Nor freezing lie in Trenches ; But wish myself with all my heart At Chelsey with my Wenches . Zounds , a Sedan , cries Goring , To cage this piece of sloth ; Dammee , but one word more of Peace , I'le stab him with and Oath : My Father was in days of yore A Monopolizing vermin , But now is glad to keep the door , And cringe to Harry Termin . That was a gallant trade at Court , Then said Endymion Porter , When Subjects pockets we could fish , And clip their purse-strings shorter : But now the block runs in my mind When I dream of Peace in bed ; Then 'wake , and feel , yet nothing find About me but my head . O monstrous ! then cries Windbank , That dreams should prove so true ; I fear then I shall be undone By Peace as well as you : What though I am a Jesuite , ( God bless our good Queen Marry ) Yet if the Roundheads we outfight , I shall still be Secretary . And I , Tom. Lunsford , hope to be Lieutenant of the Tower , Then I shall have the Citizens Again within my power : And like tame Slaves , I will them teach And iron chain to wear ; The Ordnance also shall soon reach As far as Westminster . But soft there ( Tom. ) quoth Byron , Thou art yet but a Knight ; For murders cool , I Lorded was , After the end o'th' figh Then I may be Lieutenant made Rather than thee , I hope , Since I more cruel am , if not Prevented by a Rope . I fear not Ropes , says Langdale , Hanging to mee's a jest ; I'le venture neck at any time To th' weight of my thin ches If Peace come , I will yield thus far , And give them many thanks ; Yet one thing by the way I bar , All pulling by the Shanks . O Lord , how dare you venture so , Sir Skellum Grenvile cries ! The very thought of it does make Blood in my face to rise : Peace is a sweet soft name to some , But to me it sounds like Thunder , More terrible than a Plymouth Drum , And will rob me of my Plunder . A Skiff , a Skiff , baules Dives , If you talk more of Peace ; Hells torments light on ev'ry wretch That prays the War might cease : For then my Brother George , and I , After the Queen must dance , And live on Popish Charity , In Italy , Spaine , or France . You see ( beloved Countrymen ) How Peace is out of season ; For which you have the The Sense of the Oxford-Junto , Concerning the late Treaty ; wherein the several Reasons are delivered , why they could not conclude a Peace with the Parliament And Published for the Satisfaction of the whole Kingdom . GIve ear ( beloved Countrymen ) Who long so much for Peace , And guess a Treaty th' only means The Kingdom to release : Be not mistaken thus to think ; For we were sent so far As Uxbridge , but to swear and drink , And not to end the War . Through our dissembling Impudence Your hearts ( we know ) were full Of Joy , and did us true believe , Whereas we mean't to Gull : What though the Kingdom bleeding lie , Yet Peace is out of season , And that Bugbear we do defy For many a weighty reason . First , I'le no Peace , says Rupert ; Good Uncle , do not think , That I can leave your Kingdom so While there is any chincke : You know for Plunder I did come With Germane tag and rag ; And I'le have more ere I go home Again unto the Hague . Doe ( Brother ) doe , says Maurice , I like the Humour deer , And could contented be to have The War last many a year : Let's keep us still on English ground , And for ourselves create Possessions of as large a bound , As the Palatinate . Then from his Pen starts Digby , And cries 't was Princely spoken , Since hope there was that France would send Ten thousand for a token : Beside , the Gallant Irish vow To pawn their Praying Beads , Rather than we should yield them now A Peace , to loose our Heals . 'Tis true ( my Son ) quoth Bristoll , Then write a Declaration Of our late Treating , which wee'l send To cheat each foreign Nation : For we must make the world believe , None more for Peace requested Than we , or else they'l laugh in sleeve , And we shall be detested . But Brother mine , says Cottington , I am Lord Treasurer ; Yet not one Penny can produce For to maintain the War : And now the tottering State of Spaine Can spare us no relief , I live to bear the Bag in vain , And may die like a Thief . Fie , fie my Lord , then Winchester Bids him not to despair , And cheers him with large Rodomonts , Much like a Wise men Heir : Il'e do my best to keep off Peace , And stoutly put all Care by ; For if from Basing they me chase , Il'e run to my Lord of Darby . Darby , He will do anything , So they the War prolong , If that his Countess give him leave ; For she at home's most strong : But if that Latham yielded be , And they escape well can , Her , and these two Wits , you may see Reign in the I'll of Man. And I , Lord Paulet , would be glad To have the War still spun out , Because I know from Basing-house The Fool at length will run ou Then there to have Command in chief I'me sure will be my fate ; And like a good brotherly Thief , Beg him and his Estate . 'Tis a good Christian act ( my Lord ) I Hopton do allow it ; For I was once esteem'd a Saint , As all the World does know i And for this Name more War I'le wage , Till I it gain from Room ; So Traitors shall a Pilgrimage Make yearly to my Tomb . And I , Duke Lennox , will contend , As long as I do live , With Papists how to raise and stretch The Kings Prerogative : Then I may rage and domineer Over my Countrymen , Or else I shall be sham'd t'appear In Scotland ere again . A fig ( my Lord ) says Capel , The Scots we soon will beat ; However , let us go and seem As if we meant to Trea They cut my Woods , both Branch and Boughs , My Timber all is fallen , As if they were to roast the Cows Whichever I have stolen . And I ( quoth Kingston ) am undone , Except we fight it out ; Because for Bishops I did plead , The Vulgar will me flou Beside , my Father money lent Unto the King great store ; Unless we slave the Parliament , I ne're shall see it more . Who would not fight , cries Dunsmore , And Earl to be enstil'd ? To loose a Lordship , Hatton says , Would make a Courtier wild : Culpepper , he grows hight i'th mouth , Damnes Peace , as if he meant , Rather than not to be a Lord , Fight to be King of Kent . Sir Nicholas , he to treat will go , But swears he shall miscarry ; The very thought of Peace will spoil Him for a Secretary . He with them thus conditions then , That if they stay the longer , For him to choose some other man Of constitution stronger . Then up a Bench of Lawyers stand , And in their Judgement gave , 'Twas fit Sir Edward Nicholas might His Habeas Corpus have : Ned Hide , and Lane , they were the chief , I need to name no more , Who for their Knighthood's stood so stiff , And shut Peace out of door . But all to fight for the known Laws , As Littleton maintains ; Who strove to steal away the Seal , Yet god nothing for his pains : For when the man to Oxford came , They fell to swear and curse , And asked him if he did not shame To bring and empty Purse . But he at length in favour crept Among the Medley Rout , And is against the name of Peace As zealous and as stou An't please your Majesty , says he , If wisely you will deal , The Ordnance still must mounted be , They will make good the Seal . And I ( my Liege ) says Heath , affirm None better can than these , Restore again the Chancery , Your Bench , or Common Pleasant : Fight on , by Law Il'e make it good , Pull down the Senate's pride ; It is not fit a Treaty should This difference decide . Then spoke Armagh , if Law it be , I'le prove it Gospel too , By such a knotty Syllogism As no man shall undo : In Bishops breasts all truth does rest , Scorn Treating then , and come ; Wee'l give each man a hallow'd crest , And Consecrated drum . And I ( quoth Duppa ) do protest , That they which but begin To think of pulling Bishops down Commit a heinous since : What a cursed thing then Treating is , How odious is Peace , Which envies Churchmen worldly bliss , Great honours , pride , and ease ! And Stewart vows hee'l be content Much rather soon to die , Than let his Conscience witness bear Unto Presbytery : What though it does appear more right , I never will confess ? Let's Treat in show , break off , and fight , Upon advantages . But hark you ( Sirs ) says Dorset , Do anything you please ; Yet for one reason I desire , That we might have a Peace : I cannot act a Soldiers part , Nor freezing lie in Trenches ; But wish myself with all my heart At Chelsey with my Wenches . Zounds , a Sedan , cries Goring , To cage this piece of sloth ; Dammee , but one word more of Peace , I'le stab him with and Oath : My Father was in days of yore A Monopolizing vermin , But now is glad to keep the door , And cringe to Harry Termin . That was a gallant trade at Court , Then said Endymion Porter , When Subjects pockets we could fish , And clip their purse-strings shorter : But now the block runs in my mind When I dream of Peace in bed ; Then 'wake , and feel , yet nothing find About me but my head . O monstrous ! then cries Windbank , That dreams should prove so true ; I fear then I shall be undone By Peace as well as you : What though I am a Jesuite , ( God bless our good Queen Marry ) Yet if the Roundheads we outfight , I shall still be Secretary . And I , Tom. Lunsford , hope to be Lieutenant of the Tower , Then I shall have the Citizens Again within my power : And like tame Slaves , I will them teach And iron chain to wear ; The Ordnance also shall soon reach As far as Westminster . But soft there ( Tom. ) quoth Byron , Thou art yet but a Knight ; For murders cool , I Lorded was , After the end o'th' figh Then I may be Lieutenant made Rather than thee , I hope , Since I more cruel am , if not Prevented by a Rope . I fear not Ropes , says Langdale , Hanging to mee's a jest ; I'le venture neck at any time To th' weight of my thin ches If Peace come , I will yield thus far , And give them many thanks ; Yet one thing by the way I bar , All pulling by the Shanks . O Lord , how dare you venture so , Sir Skellum Grenvile cries ! The very thought of it does make Blood in my face to rise : Peace is a sweet soft name to some , But to me it sounds like Thunder , More terrible than a Plymouth Drum , And will rob me of my Plunder . A Skiff , a Skiff , baules Dives , If you talk more of Peace ; Hells torments light on ev'ry wretch That prays the War might cease : For then my Brother George , and I , After the Queen must dance , And live on Popish Charity , In Italy , Spaine , or France . You see ( beloved Countrymen ) How Peace is out of season ; For which you have the Junto's Sense , And each Commanders reason : Then pray you do not take it ill We you deceiv'd by Treating ; For you may have Peace , if you will But give us a found Beating . FINIS . Junto's Sense , And each Commanders reason : Then pray you do not take it ill We you deceiv'd by Treating ; For you may have Peace , if you will But give us a found Beating . FINIS . 