The Plough-man's Praise : In A DIALOGUE between a Mother and her Daughter ; Which Daughter resolved to forsake a Wealthy 'Squire , and marry Roger , the Ploughman for his Plain-Dealing . Tune of the Evening Ramble , etc DEar Mother I reckon to marry , I hope you will give your consen For as I am told , full Eighteen Years old , I was in the midst of last Lent. 'Tis time I was marry'd you know , Three Winter's and Summer's ago , I then did discover the Joys of a Lover : When Roger he tickl'd me so , O! he is as pretty a Fellow I vow , As ever was train'd up to follow the Plough . Why Huswife what mean you by Roger , the passionate Mother reply'd , A Country Clown , the scorn of the Town , you may be a Gentleman's Bride : For , Daughter , i'll make it appear , That now in fair Somersetshire , Beside Gold and Treasure , and Wealth out of measure , My Rends are Two Hundred a Year , And do you imagine , that I will allow , My Daughter to marry a Fellow at Plough . The Plough is a Staff to the Kingdom , a Pillar and Prop to the Throne : On every hand it fattens the Land , with Plenty , 'tis very well known , For if we had Guinea's untold , More than a whole Kingdom could hold , What Man would be quiet without any Diet , For whoever liv'd upon Gold ? No Creature , dear Mother , and therefore I'll vow , To marry a Husband that follows the Plough . But Gold is a beautiful Metal , this City and Court to adorn , To satisfy you , a handful or two , is worth many Bushels of Corn : The Farmers where ever they dwell , Their Corn they will readily fell , For Money to any , so sweet is the Penny , Without it , there's none can live well , And therefore , dear Daughter , consider this now , And take not a Fellow that follows the Plough . I shall have hereafter , dear Mother , two Hundred a Year , and above , A plentiful store , I'll covet no more : but marry the Man that I love ; Tho' in a poor Jerkin he goes , And Patches , perhaps on his Hose , Dear Mother pray hear me , when e'er he comes near me , His Breath is as sweet as a Rose : If ever I marry , I solemnly vow , It shall be a Fellow that follows the Plough . Dear Daughter I strange at your Fancy , this 'Squire that Courts you , I know , Will make you his Wife , and love you as Life , in Jewels and Gems you may go : He's wealthy , and handsome , withal , Both lusty , strait , proper , and tall , And you'll be attended , and likewise befriended , Have Servants to come at your Call , Pray why will you slight such a Happiness now , And take a poor Fellow that follows the Plough . A Fig for the Bully young 'Squire , a Crack he do's constantly keep ; He'll revel and Sport , with Ladies at Court , while I in my Chamber may weep , To think of my sad Overthrow : But Roger will never do so , He's honest I know it , and cannot forego it , And Mother he loves me I know : And therefore , if ever I marry , I vow It shall be with Roger that follows the Plough . Dear Daughter , if that be the Reason , thy Wisdom I needs must commend , A right honest Man will get what he can , but others will wastefully spend , And ruin their Families quite , I think thou art much in the righ I will not deny thee , let Roger lie by thee , Since he is thy Joy and Delight , And when thou art marry'd , my Love shall be shown ; I'll give him a Farm , and Two Ploughs of his own . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . The Plough-man's Praise : In A DIALOGUE between a Mother and her Daughter ; Which Daughter resolved to forsake a Wealthy 'Squire , and marry Roger , the Ploughman for his Plain-Dealing . Tune of the Evening Ramble , etc DEar Mother I reckon to marry , I hope you will give your consen For as I am told , full Eighteen Years old , I was in the midst of last Lent. 'Tis time I was marry'd you know , Three Winter's and Summer's ago , I then did discover the Joys of a Lover : When Roger he tickl'd me so , O! he is as pretty a Fellow I vow , As ever was train'd up to follow the Plough . Why Huswife what mean you by Roger , the passionate Mother reply'd , A Country Clown , the scorn of the Town , you may be a Gentleman's Bride : For , Daughter , i'll make it appear , That now in fair Somersetshire , Beside Gold and Treasure , and Wealth out of measure , My Rends are Two Hundred a Year , And do you imagine , that I will allow , My Daughter to marry a Fellow at Plough . The Plough is a Staff to the Kingdom , a Pillar and Prop to the Throne : On every hand it fattens the Land , with Plenty , 'tis very well known , For if we had Guinea's untold , More than a whole Kingdom could hold , What Man would be quiet without any Diet , For whoever liv'd upon Gold ? No Creature , dear Mother , and therefore I'll vow , To marry a Husband that follows the Plough . But Gold is a beautiful Metal , this City and Court to adorn , To satisfy you , a handful or two , is worth many Bushels of Corn : The Farmers where ever they dwell , Their Corn they will readily fell , For Money to any , so sweet is the Penny , Without it , there's none can live well , And therefore , dear Daughter , consider this now , And take not a Fellow that follows the Plough . I shall have hereafter , dear Mother , two Hundred a Year , and above , A plentiful store , I'll covet no more : but marry the Man that I love ; Tho' in a poor Jerkin he goes , And Patches , perhaps on his Hose , Dear Mother pray hear me , when e'er he comes near me , His Breath is as sweet as a Rose : If ever I marry , I solemnly vow , It shall be a Fellow that follows the Plough . Dear Daughter I strange at your Fancy , this 'Squire that Courts you , I know , Will make you his Wife , and love you as Life , in Jewels and Gems you may go : He's wealthy , and handsome , withal , Both lusty , strait , proper , and tall , And you'll be attended , and likewise befriended , Have Servants to come at your Call , Pray why will you slight such a Happiness now , And take a poor Fellow that follows the Plough . A Fig for the Bully young 'Squire , a Crack he do's constantly keep ; He'll revel and Sport , with Ladies at Court , while I in my Chamber may weep , To think of my sad Overthrow : But Roger will never do so , He's honest I know it , and cannot forego it , And Mother he loves me I know : And therefore , if ever I marry , I vow It shall be with Roger that follows the Plough . Dear Daughter , if that be the Reason , thy Wisdom I needs must commend , A right honest Man will get what he can , but others will wastefully spend , And ruin their Families quite , I think thou art much in the righ I will not deny thee , let Roger lie by thee , Since he is thy Joy and Delight , And when thou art marry'd , my Love shall be shown ; I'll give him a Farm , and Two Ploughs of his own . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . 