Celia's Complaint , for the loss of her Virginity . She by fair words was quickly wone , Amintas prov'd Unkind ; And Celia says , she's quite Undone , Much troubled in her mind . To the Tune of , Philander . DEath quickly come away , and ease me of my pain , The longer here I stay , my Life I must disdain : Such deadly smart , does pierce my heart , no mortal can endure , Then let me die , For certainly , I ne'r shall find a Cure . Amintas he is gone , I am forsaken quite , He was the only Man , in whom I took deligh My Life to me , is Misery , since he is so unkind , He's from me fled , And I half Dead , poor soul , am left behind . I Languish now in Grief by Night , and eke by Day , I can find no Relief , but hourly waste away : Was ever Lass , at this strange pass , or Wounded like to me ; Come quickly Death , To stop my Breath , and end my Misery . I wish I ne'r had seen those eyes that me betray'd , Then surely had I been , a matchless happy Maid : Deluding Tongue , thou did'st me wrong , as well as his fair eyes ; And Conquer'd all , I had a fallen , and ne'r again shall rise . MY spotless Virgins Fort , thou strongly didst assault , My Favour thou didst Court , and this was my great faul So soon to yield , to thee the Field , which did my Honour stain ; And now I cry , Continually , poor Celia Lov'd in vain . You Damsels all beware , take warning now by me , And let not Speeches fair , betray your Honesty : For I , poor I , assuredly , by them too soon was wone : In discontent , I now Lament , alas , I'm quite undone . Ten thousand Sighs and Sobs , part with e'ry day , I feel such pangs and Throbs , and so Consume away : That with desire , I burn like fire , to be within thy Grave : Which to obtain , Would be my gain , that's all I now would have . False Youngmen now give o're , and cease for to betray , Deceive poor Maids no more , who hardly can say nay : But quickly bow , and make a vow , to Love you evermore : Then them you leave , To mourn and grieve , which grieves their hearts full soar . But 'tis a dreadful thing , that you should use them so , Which to their hearts will bring such Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : That often times , maids in their primes , they do themselves destroy : Because they find , Their Loves unkind , and cannot them enjoy . Then dally so no more , with Maidens that are kind , For Blessings in great store , the Honest man shall find : But he that does fly from the Truth , of what he did protes Shall met with be , Assuredly , believe me 'tis no Jest . Printed for Charles Passenger , at the Seven Stars on London-Bridge . Celia's Complaint , for the loss of her Virginity . She by fair words was quickly wone , Amintas prov'd Unkind ; And Celia says , she's quite Undone , Much troubled in her mind . To the Tune of , Philander . DEath quickly come away , and ease me of my pain , The longer here I stay , my Life I must disdain : Such deadly smart , does pierce my heart , no mortal can endure , Then let me die , For certainly , I ne'r shall find a Cure . Amintas he is gone , I am forsaken quite , He was the only Man , in whom I took deligh My Life to me , is Misery , since he is so unkind , He's from me fled , And I half Dead , poor soul , am left behind . I Languish now in Grief by Night , and eke by Day , I can find no Relief , but hourly waste away : Was ever Lass , at this strange pass , or Wounded like to me ; Come quickly Death , To stop my Breath , and end my Misery . I wish I ne'r had seen those eyes that me betray'd , Then surely had I been , a matchless happy Maid : Deluding Tongue , thou did'st me wrong , as well as his fair eyes ; And Conquer'd all , I had a fallen , and ne'r again shall rise . MY spotless Virgins Fort , thou strongly didst assault , My Favour thou didst Court , and this was my great faul So soon to yield , to thee the Field , which did my Honour stain ; And now I cry , Continually , poor Celia Lov'd in vain . You Damsels all beware , take warning now by me , And let not Speeches fair , betray your Honesty : For I , poor I , assuredly , by them too soon was wone : In discontent , I now Lament , alas , I'm quite undone . Ten thousand Sighs and Sobs , part with e'ry day , I feel such pangs and Throbs , and so Consume away : That with desire , I burn like fire , to be within thy Grave : Which to obtain , Would be my gain , that's all I now would have . False Youngmen now give o're , and cease for to betray , Deceive poor Maids no more , who hardly can say nay : But quickly bow , and make a vow , to Love you evermore : Then them you leave , To mourn and grieve , which grieves their hearts full soar . But 'tis a dreadful thing , that you should use them so , Which to their hearts will bring such Sorrow , Grief , and Woe : That often times , maids in their primes , they do themselves destroy : Because they find , Their Loves unkind , and cannot them enjoy . Then dally so no more , with Maidens that are kind , For Blessings in great store , the Honest man shall find : But he that does fly from the Truth , of what he did protes Shall met with be , Assuredly , believe me 'tis no Jest . Printed for Charles Passenger , at the Seven Stars on London-Bridge . 