The Ladies Delight , OR , Narcissus his Love-Flower . A pleasant and delightful new Ditty , Made by a Lover for Ladys so witty , When to Venus sports , they please to resort To pull sweet Flowers , that yields the best sport . The Tune is , Narcissus come kiss us , etc AS I was walking I cannot tell when , nor I cannot tell whither nor where I met with a crew , of I cannot tell who , nor cannot tell what they were , But Virgins I think , for they cry'd Narcissus , come kiss us , and love us beside . They sung a fine song of I cannot tell what , nor whither in Verse or in Prose , Nor knew I their meaning , although they all sat even as it were under my Nose , But ever and anon they all cried , Narcissus , come kiss us , and love us beside . There came in a Lad from I cannot tell whence with I cannot tell what in his hand , It was a live thing that had little sense , but yet it could lustily stand : Then louder these Ladies they cried Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . Some shak'd it , some stroak'd it , some kissed it 'tis said it looked so lovely indeed , All hugd it as honey , and none were afraid , because of their bodily need , And louder these Ladys they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside , The second part to the same tune . AT length he did put in this pretty fine toy , in I cannot tell where below , Into one of these Ladys , but I cannot tell why nor wherefore it should be so . But in the mean time they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . But when that these Ladies had sported all night and rifled Dame Nature's store , And tired themselves in Venus delight , that they could hardly do more , Yet louder these Ladys they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . This Lad being tired , began to retreat , and hang down his head like a flower , The Ladies the more did desire the feat but alas 'twas out of his power , Then louder and louder they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . When full forty weeks were almost expir'd , a pitiful story to tell These Ladies did hate what most they desir'd their bells began so to swell . Than a woeful tune they all cried Narcissus wont kiss us , nor love us beside . Lucina in pity then lent them her aid , to ease them of their sorrow , But when that these Ladys were gently laid they had the same mind to morrow , And dandling their Bantlings they cried , Narcissus shan't miss us , to lie by our side But as I was minding these pretty fine toys how Venus with Cupid did play What pleasure these Ladys did take in their Boys did led my Fancy astray , To hear how they lull'd them and cried Narcissus come kiss us and love us beside . I then returned I cannot tell how , nor what was in my mind Nor what else I herd I know not I vow , nor saw , for Cupid is blind : But that these Ladys still cried Narcisses come kiss us and love us beside . But now to conclude , I cannot tell what , nor when , nor how , nor where , Nor found I the Sense of their Song or their Chat for Ladys are fickle as Air : Therefore I did laugh till they cried Narcissus come kiss us and love us beside . London , Printed for Charles Tyus at the sign of the three Bibles on London-Bridge . The Ladies Delight , OR , Narcissus his Love-Flower . A pleasant and delightful new Ditty , Made by a Lover for Ladys so witty , When to Venus sports , they please to resort To pull sweet Flowers , that yields the best sport . The Tune is , Narcissus come kiss us , etc AS I was walking I cannot tell when , nor I cannot tell whither nor where I met with a crew , of I cannot tell who , nor cannot tell what they were , But Virgins I think , for they cry'd Narcissus , come kiss us , and love us beside . They sung a fine song of I cannot tell what , nor whither in Verse or in Prose , Nor knew I their meaning , although they all sat even as it were under my Nose , But ever and anon they all cried , Narcissus , come kiss us , and love us beside . There came in a Lad from I cannot tell whence with I cannot tell what in his hand , It was a live thing that had little sense , but yet it could lustily stand : Then louder these Ladies they cried Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . Some shak'd it , some stroak'd it , some kissed it 'tis said it looked so lovely indeed , All hugd it as honey , and none were afraid , because of their bodily need , And louder these Ladys they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside , The second part to the same tune . AT length he did put in this pretty fine toy , in I cannot tell where below , Into one of these Ladys , but I cannot tell why nor wherefore it should be so . But in the mean time they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . But when that these Ladies had sported all night and rifled Dame Nature's store , And tired themselves in Venus delight , that they could hardly do more , Yet louder these Ladys they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . This Lad being tired , began to retreat , and hang down his head like a flower , The Ladies the more did desire the feat but alas 'twas out of his power , Then louder and louder they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . When full forty weeks were almost expir'd , a pitiful story to tell These Ladies did hate what most they desir'd their bells began so to swell . Than a woeful tune they all cried Narcissus wont kiss us , nor love us beside . Lucina in pity then lent them her aid , to ease them of their sorrow , But when that these Ladys were gently laid they had the same mind to morrow , And dandling their Bantlings they cried , Narcissus shan't miss us , to lie by our side But as I was minding these pretty fine toys how Venus with Cupid did play What pleasure these Ladys did take in their Boys did led my Fancy astray , To hear how they lull'd them and cried Narcissus come kiss us and love us beside . I then returned I cannot tell how , nor what was in my mind Nor what else I herd I know not I vow , nor saw , for Cupid is blind : But that these Ladys still cried Narcisses come kiss us and love us beside . But now to conclude , I cannot tell what , nor when , nor how , nor where , Nor found I the Sense of their Song or their Chat for Ladys are fickle as Air : Therefore I did laugh till they cried Narcissus come kiss us and love us beside . London , Printed for Charles Tyus at the sign of the three Bibles on London-Bridge . 