The young-Mans Resolution to the Maidens Reques BEING A Witty Dialogue between a Young-Man and a Maid : Wherein she asks him when he intends to Marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the Tune of , In Summer time . AS I was walking under a grove , within my self as I supposed ; My mind did often times remove , and by no means could be disclosed : At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time to tarry , And then of me she did entreat , to tell her when I meant to marry . Sweetheart , quoth I , if you would know , then mark these words and I'le reveal it ; Since in your heart you bear it so , and in your heart you do conceal i She promised to make no words , but of such things she would be wary . And thus in brief I did begin , to tell her when I meant to marry . When Shrovetide falls in Easter-week , and Christmas in the midst of July , And Lawyers for no fees will plead , and Tailors they deal just and truly - When all deceits are quite put down , and truth by all men is preferred , And Indigo die Read and Brown , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Saffron grows on every Tree , and every stream flows Milk and Honey ; And Sugar grows in Carret-fields , and Usurers refuse good money : When Countrymen for judges sits , and Lammas falls in February , And Millers they their Tole forgets , Oh then my love and I will marry , WHen men & beasts i'the Ocean flows , & fish in green fields are feeding , When Muscle-shells I'th streets do grow and swans upon dry Rocks are breeding : When Cockle-shells are Diamond-Rings , and Glass to Pearl may be compared ; And Gold is made of the Gray-goose-wings , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Summer does not dry up mire and men on earth do leave to flatter , When Bakers they do use no fire , and Brewers they do use no water : When mountains are by men remov'd and England into France is carried , And all Maids prove true to their loves , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking Brandy When Cats do bark , and Dogs do Mew , and Brimstone's took for Sugarcandy , Or when that Whitsontide does fallen , within the Month of January , And Cobblers works without and Awl , Oh then my love and I will marry . When women know not how to scold , & Maids of Sweethearts ne'r are thinking When men i'th fire complain of cold , and ships on Salisburyplain fear sinking , When Horse-coursers turn honest men , and London unto York is carried ; Or when you out of one can take ten , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and frying-pans are us'd for Ladles , Or when in the Sea they dig for Wells , and Porridge-pots they make for Cradles When Maids forget to go a Maying , and a man on his back and Ox can carry , Or when the Mice with the Cat be playing 'tis then my love and I will marry , Good sir since you have told me when , you are resolved for to marry ; I wish with all my heart till then , that for a wife you still might tarry : For if all Youngmen were of your mind , and Maids not better were preferred , I think it would be when the Devil is blind that we and our lovers should be married FINIS . J.S. Printed for C. Pasinger , at the Seven-Stars , on London-bridge . The young-Mans Resolution to the Maidens Reques BEING A Witty Dialogue between a Young-Man and a Maid : Wherein she asks him when he intends to Marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the Tune of , In Summer time . AS I was walking under a grove , within my self as I supposed ; My mind did often times remove , and by no means could be disclosed : At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time to tarry , And then of me she did entreat , to tell her when I meant to marry . Sweetheart , quoth I , if you would know , then mark these words and I'le reveal it ; Since in your heart you bear it so , and in your heart you do conceal i She promised to make no words , but of such things she would be wary . And thus in brief I did begin , to tell her when I meant to marry . When Shrovetide falls in Easter-week , and Christmas in the midst of July , And Lawyers for no fees will plead , and Tailors they deal just and truly - When all deceits are quite put down , and truth by all men is preferred , And Indigo die Read and Brown , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Saffron grows on every Tree , and every stream flows Milk and Honey ; And Sugar grows in Carret-fields , and Usurers refuse good money : When Countrymen for judges sits , and Lammas falls in February , And Millers they their Tole forgets , Oh then my love and I will marry , WHen men & beasts i'the Ocean flows , & fish in green fields are feeding , When Muscle-shells I'th streets do grow and swans upon dry Rocks are breeding : When Cockle-shells are Diamond-Rings , and Glass to Pearl may be compared ; And Gold is made of the Gray-goose-wings , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Summer does not dry up mire and men on earth do leave to flatter , When Bakers they do use no fire , and Brewers they do use no water : When mountains are by men remov'd and England into France is carried , And all Maids prove true to their loves , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking Brandy When Cats do bark , and Dogs do Mew , and Brimstone's took for Sugarcandy , Or when that Whitsontide does fallen , within the Month of January , And Cobblers works without and Awl , Oh then my love and I will marry . When women know not how to scold , & Maids of Sweethearts ne'r are thinking When men i'th fire complain of cold , and ships on Salisburyplain fear sinking , When Horse-coursers turn honest men , and London unto York is carried ; Or when you out of one can take ten , Oh then my love and i'le be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and frying-pans are us'd for Ladles , Or when in the Sea they dig for Wells , and Porridge-pots they make for Cradles When Maids forget to go a Maying , and a man on his back and Ox can carry , Or when the Mice with the Cat be playing 'tis then my love and I will marry , Good sir since you have told me when , you are resolved for to marry ; I wish with all my heart till then , that for a wife you still might tarry : For if all Youngmen were of your mind , and Maids not better were preferred , I think it would be when the Devil is blind that we and our lovers should be married FINIS . J.S. Printed for C. Pasinger , at the Seven-Stars , on London-bridge . 