A New Satirical BALLAD OF THE Licentiousness of the Times . To the Tune of , The Blind Beggar of Bednall-Green . I . THe devil has left his puritanical dress , And now like and Hawker attends on the Press , That he might through the Town Sedition disperse , In Pamphlets , and Ballads , in prose and in Verse . II 'Tis surely so , for if the Devil wan't in't , There would not be so many strange things in prin Now each man writes what seems good in his Eyes , And tells in bald Rhymes his Inventions and Lies . III . Some relate to the World their own causeless fears , Endeavouring to set us together by the ears , They strive to make Factions for two great Commanders , Though one be in Holland , the other in Flanders . IV. They bawl and they yaul aloud through the whole Town , The rights of Succession and Claims to the Crown , And snarling and grumbling like Fools at each other , Raise Contests and Factions betwixt Son and Brother . V. Here one does on this side his Verses oppose , Up starts another and jousts with him in prose , On Rumor a Jade , they get up , and mount her , And so like DONE Quixot with Wind-mills Encounter . VI . Our Sun is not setting , it does not grow dark yet , The King is in health still , and gone to New-Market , Let then idle Coxcomb's leave off their debating , What either side says is unmannerly prating . VII . Another though he be but a senseless Widgion Will like and Arch bishop determine Religion : What ere his opinion is that must be best , And strait he Confutes , and Confounds all the rest . VIII . I' the Coffee house here one with a grave face , When after salute , he hath taken his place , His Pipe being l [ i ] ghted begins for to prate , And wisely discourses the affairs of the State . IX . Another in fury the board strait does thump , And highly extols the blessed Times of the Rump ; The Pope and all Monarchs he sends to the Devil , And up in their places he sets Harry Nevill . X. Another who would be distinguish'd from Cit , And swearing God dam me , to show him a wit , ( Who for all his huffing one grain hath not god ) Scoffs at all Religion , and the Popish plot . XI . One with and uncivil satyrical Jest , To be thought a wit , has a fling at the Priest , He jears at his Betters , and all men of note , From th' Alderman to the Canonical coat . XII . A politic Citizen in his blue gown , As gravely in shop he walks up , and down , Instead of attending the wares on his staul , Is all day relating th' intrigues at White-hall . XIII . And though to speak Truth he be but a Noddy , He'd have you to think that he is somebody , With politic shrug , ev'n as bad as a Curse , He cries out , Oh! the Times , no Mortal saw worse . XIV . Then comes a wise Knight as the whole Citty's Factor , Speaks Prologue in prose , too grave for and Actor , And being soar frighted , in a learned speech , To stand to their Arms all the Citts does beseech . XV . The Cobbler in stall , did you but hear him prate , You'd think that he sat at the helm of the State , His awl lay'd aside , and in right hand a pot , He roundly rips up the Soul of the Plot . XVI . But it is not enough to see what is past , For these very Men become Prophets at last , And with the same eyes can see what is meant , To be Acted and done in the next Parliament . XVII . His Worship so wise , who a Kingdom can Rule , Is by none dear Wife at home made a Fool , For though he does see through dark Mists of the State , He can't see the Horns that she plants on his pate . XVIII . The Women too prate of the Pope and the Turk , Who should play with their Tails , or else be at work , But two Noble Virtues they've attain'd to , I think , To handle State matters , and take off their drink . XIX . Petition the Players to come on the Stage , There to represent the vice of the Age , That people may see in Stage looking-Glasses , Fools of all sorts , and these politic Asses . XX . And thus I have shown you the vice of the Nation , Which wants of these Things a through Reformation , But when that will be I cannot determine , For plenty breeds Vice , as foul Bodies breed Vermin . XXI . Men may prate and may write , but 'tis not their Rhymes , That can any ways change or altar the Times , It is now grown and Epidemical Disease , For people to talk and to write what they please . XXII . God bless our Good King who our little World Rules , And is not disturb'd at the Actions of Fools , It very much helps a Wise Man's Melancholy , To see and observe and to Laugh at their Folly . London , Printed in the Year , 1679. A New Satirical BALLAD OF THE Licentiousness of the Times . To the Tune of , The Blind Beggar of Bednall-Green . I . THe devil has left his puritanical dress , And now like and Hawker attends on the Press , That he might through the Town Sedition disperse , In Pamphlets , and Ballads , in prose and in Verse . II 'Tis surely so , for if the Devil wan't in't , There would not be so many strange things in prin Now each man writes what seems good in his Eyes , And tells in bald Rhymes his Inventions and Lies . III . Some relate to the World their own causeless fears , Endeavouring to set us together by the ears , They strive to make Factions for two great Commanders , Though one be in Holland , the other in Flanders . IV. They bawl and they yaul aloud through the whole Town , The rights of Succession and Claims to the Crown , And snarling and grumbling like Fools at each other , Raise Contests and Factions betwixt Son and Brother . V. Here one does on this side his Verses oppose , Up starts another and jousts with him in prose , On Rumor a Jade , they get up , and mount her , And so like DONE Quixot with Wind-mills Encounter . VI . Our Sun is not setting , it does not grow dark yet , The King is in health still , and gone to New-Market , Let then idle Coxcomb's leave off their debating , What either side says is unmannerly prating . VII . Another though he be but a senseless Widgion Will like and Arch bishop determine Religion : What ere his opinion is that must be best , And strait he Confutes , and Confounds all the rest . VIII . I' the Coffee house here one with a grave face , When after salute , he hath taken his place , His Pipe being l [ i ] ghted begins for to prate , And wisely discourses the affairs of the State . IX . Another in fury the board strait does thump , And highly extols the blessed Times of the Rump ; The Pope and all Monarchs he sends to the Devil , And up in their places he sets Harry Nevill . X. Another who would be distinguish'd from Cit , And swearing God dam me , to show him a wit , ( Who for all his huffing one grain hath not god ) Scoffs at all Religion , and the Popish plot . XI . One with and uncivil satyrical Jest , To be thought a wit , has a fling at the Priest , He jears at his Betters , and all men of note , From th' Alderman to the Canonical coat . XII . A politic Citizen in his blue gown , As gravely in shop he walks up , and down , Instead of attending the wares on his staul , Is all day relating th' intrigues at White-hall . XIII . And though to speak Truth he be but a Noddy , He'd have you to think that he is somebody , With politic shrug , ev'n as bad as a Curse , He cries out , Oh! the Times , no Mortal saw worse . XIV . Then comes a wise Knight as the whole Citty's Factor , Speaks Prologue in prose , too grave for and Actor , And being soar frighted , in a learned speech , To stand to their Arms all the Citts does beseech . XV . The Cobbler in stall , did you but hear him prate , You'd think that he sat at the helm of the State , His awl lay'd aside , and in right hand a pot , He roundly rips up the Soul of the Plot . XVI . But it is not enough to see what is past , For these very Men become Prophets at last , And with the same eyes can see what is meant , To be Acted and done in the next Parliament . XVII . His Worship so wise , who a Kingdom can Rule , Is by none dear Wife at home made a Fool , For though he does see through dark Mists of the State , He can't see the Horns that she plants on his pate . XVIII . The Women too prate of the Pope and the Turk , Who should play with their Tails , or else be at work , But two Noble Virtues they've attain'd to , I think , To handle State matters , and take off their drink . XIX . Petition the Players to come on the Stage , There to represent the vice of the Age , That people may see in Stage looking-Glasses , Fools of all sorts , and these politic Asses . XX . And thus I have shown you the vice of the Nation , Which wants of these Things a through Reformation , But when that will be I cannot determine , For plenty breeds Vice , as foul Bodies breed Vermin . XXI . Men may prate and may write , but 'tis not their Rhymes , That can any ways change or altar the Times , It is now grown and Epidemical Disease , For people to talk and to write what they please . XXII . God bless our Good King who our little World Rules , And is not disturb'd at the Actions of Fools , It very much helps a Wise Man's Melancholy , To see and observe and to Laugh at their Folly . London , Printed in the Year , 1679. 