The Scotch Wooing of WILLY and NANNY To a pleasant new Tune : Or , Nanny Oh , This may be Printed , R.P. AS I went forth one Morning fair , all in the midst of Summer spring , There I did hear a youngman lament , and to himself began to sing , It's Nanny , Nanny , Nanny Oh , The Love I bear to Nanny Oh , all the World shall never know , The Love I bear to Nanny Oh , Her cheeks , her Cheeks , are lily white , and her eyes are like the Christial Oh , She might have been a Lords delight , and her name was called Nanny Oh , It's Nanny , Nanny , Nanny Oh , The love I bear to Nanny Oh , all the world shall never know , The love I bear to Nanny O. I will to her Father's house , and see what favour he will show , That I may ride o're yond misty Moor , all for to court my Nanny , O. It's Nanny Oh , etc I had rather have Nanny in her smock , she is so blithe and bonny Oh , As to have Betty with five thousand marks if that she would but have me O. It's Nanny Oh , etc Come saddle me my Milk white steed , the black was ne'r so bonny Oh , That I may Whip and ride with speed , all for to court my Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc Some says it is for Means I go , but God forbid it should be so , I go for nothing but pure Love , the which I bear to Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc Some pluck up the Finckel seed , and some pull up the Tansy Oh ; A bonny boy to pull off my boots , and to gang to Bed to Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc The first time I did see my love , it was in Tinmouth Castle Oh , I thought she was and a bonny Lass , and every Lad did think her so , It's Nanny Oh , etc Some takes delight in Cards and Dice , and other some in Dancing Oh , But I take delight in a bonny Lass , and her name is called Nanny O. It's Nanny Oh , etc Now to conclude and make and end , I hope there's no one Malice show , To her that's such a bonny Lass , whose name is called Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The Scotch Wooing of WILLY and NANNY To a pleasant new Tune : Or , Nanny Oh , This may be Printed , R.P. AS I went forth one Morning fair , all in the midst of Summer spring , There I did hear a youngman lament , and to himself began to sing , It's Nanny , Nanny , Nanny Oh , The Love I bear to Nanny Oh , all the World shall never know , The Love I bear to Nanny Oh , Her cheeks , her Cheeks , are lily white , and her eyes are like the Christial Oh , She might have been a Lords delight , and her name was called Nanny Oh , It's Nanny , Nanny , Nanny Oh , The love I bear to Nanny Oh , all the world shall never know , The love I bear to Nanny O. I will to her Father's house , and see what favour he will show , That I may ride o're yond misty Moor , all for to court my Nanny , O. It's Nanny Oh , etc I had rather have Nanny in her smock , she is so blithe and bonny Oh , As to have Betty with five thousand marks if that she would but have me O. It's Nanny Oh , etc Come saddle me my Milk white steed , the black was ne'r so bonny Oh , That I may Whip and ride with speed , all for to court my Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc Some says it is for Means I go , but God forbid it should be so , I go for nothing but pure Love , the which I bear to Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc Some pluck up the Finckel seed , and some pull up the Tansy Oh ; A bonny boy to pull off my boots , and to gang to Bed to Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc The first time I did see my love , it was in Tinmouth Castle Oh , I thought she was and a bonny Lass , and every Lad did think her so , It's Nanny Oh , etc Some takes delight in Cards and Dice , and other some in Dancing Oh , But I take delight in a bonny Lass , and her name is called Nanny O. It's Nanny Oh , etc Now to conclude and make and end , I hope there's no one Malice show , To her that's such a bonny Lass , whose name is called Nanny Oh , It's Nanny Oh , etc Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 