The Delights of the Bottle : OR , The Town-Gallants Declaration for Women and Wine . Being a Description of a Townbred Gentleman , with all his Intreagus , Pleasure , Company , Humour , and Conversations . Gallants , from faults he cannot be exempt , Who does a task so difficult attempt ; I know I shall not hit your features right , 'Tis hard to imitate in black and white , Some Lines were drawn by a more skilful hand , And which they were you'l quickly understand , Excuse me therefore if I do you wrong , I did but make a Ballad of a Song . To a most Admirable New Tune , every where much in request . THe Delights of the Bottle , & charms of good wine To the pow'r & the pleasures of love must resign , Though the night in the joys of good drinking be passed , The debauches but till the next morning does last ; But loves great debauch is more lasting and strong , For that often lasts a man all his life long . Love , and Wine , are the bonds that fasten us all , The world , but for this , to confusion would fallen : Were it not for the pleasures of love and good wine , Mankind , for each trifle , their lives would resign : they'd not valve dull life , or wou'd live without thinking Nor Kings rule the world , but for love & good drinking . For the Grave , and the Dull , by sobriety curs'd , that would ne'r take a glass , but for quenching his thirst , He that once in a Month takes a touch of the Smoke , And poor Nature upholds with a bit and a knock , What ever the ignorant Rabble may say , Tho' he breathes till a hundred , he lives but a day . Let the Puritan preach against wenches , and drink , He may prate out his Lungs , but I know what I think When the Lecture is done , he'l a Sister entice , Not a Lecher in Town can Outdo him at Vice : Tho' beneath his Religion , he stifles his joys , And becomes a Dabauch without clamour or noise . 'Twixt the Vices of both , little difference lies , But that one is more open , the other precise : Though he drinks like a chick , with his eyeballs lift up , Yet I'le warrant thee boy , he shall take off his cup : His Religious debauch , does the gallants outmatch , For a Saint is his Wench , and a Psalm is his Catch . The Second part , to the same Tune . FOr the Lady of Virtue , & Honour so strict , That who offers her Guinneys deserves to be kick'd Who with sport by herself , does her fancy beguile , That's asham'd of a jest , and afraid of a smile : May she lie by herself , till she wear out the stairs , Going down to her Dinner , and up to her Prayers . But let us that have Noble and generous souls , No method observe , but in filling our bouls : Let us frolic it round , to replenish our veins , And with notions divine , to inspire our brains , 'Tis a way that's Gentile , and is found to be good , Both to quicken the Wit , and enliven the blood . What a pleasure it is to see bottles before us , With the women among us to make up the Chorus ? Now a Jest , now a Catch , now a Buss , now a Health , Till our pleasure comes on by insensible stealth , And when grown to a height , with our Girls we retire By a brisker enjoyment , to slacken the fire . And this is the way that the wiser doe take , A perpetual motion in pleasure to make : With a flood of Obrian , we fill up each vein , All the Spirits of which love's Limbeck must drain : While the soberer Sot , has no motion of blood , For his fancy is nothing but puddle and Mud. He's a slave to his soul , who in spite of his sense , With a Clog of his own putting on can dispense , For he Fetters himself , when at large he might rove , So he's ty'd from the sweets of good drinking and love , Yet he's satisfied well , that he's thought to be wise , By the Dull and foolish : I mean the precise . For my part whatever the consequence be , To my will and my fancy , i'le always be free , They are mad that do wilfully run upon shelves , Since dangers , and troubles , will come of themselves , For whoever desires to live like a man , He must be without trouble as long as he can . And these are the pleasures true Gallants do find , To which if you are not , you should be enclin'd , If you follow my counsel , you take off the curse , And if you do not , we are never the worse : Yet none will refuse but a Beggar or Cit , Who to carry on the humour , wants Money or Wit . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . The Delights of the Bottle : OR , The Town-Gallants Declaration for Women and Wine . Being a Description of a Townbred Gentleman , with all his Intreagus , Pleasure , Company , Humour , and Conversations . Gallants , from faults he cannot be exempt , Who does a task so difficult attempt ; I know I shall not hit your features right , 'Tis hard to imitate in black and white , Some Lines were drawn by a more skilful hand , And which they were you'l quickly understand , Excuse me therefore if I do you wrong , I did but make a Ballad of a Song . To a most Admirable New Tune , every where much in request . THe Delights of the Bottle , & charms of good wine To the pow'r & the pleasures of love must resign , Though the night in the joys of good drinking be passed , The debauches but till the next morning does last ; But loves great debauch is more lasting and strong , For that often lasts a man all his life long . Love , and Wine , are the bonds that fasten us all , The world , but for this , to confusion would fallen : Were it not for the pleasures of love and good wine , Mankind , for each trifle , their lives would resign : they'd not valve dull life , or wou'd live without thinking Nor Kings rule the world , but for love & good drinking . For the Grave , and the Dull , by sobriety curs'd , that would ne'r take a glass , but for quenching his thirst , He that once in a Month takes a touch of the Smoke , And poor Nature upholds with a bit and a knock , What ever the ignorant Rabble may say , Tho' he breathes till a hundred , he lives but a day . Let the Puritan preach against wenches , and drink , He may prate out his Lungs , but I know what I think When the Lecture is done , he'l a Sister entice , Not a Lecher in Town can Outdo him at Vice : Tho' beneath his Religion , he stifles his joys , And becomes a Dabauch without clamour or noise . 'Twixt the Vices of both , little difference lies , But that one is more open , the other precise : Though he drinks like a chick , with his eyeballs lift up , Yet I'le warrant thee boy , he shall take off his cup : His Religious debauch , does the gallants outmatch , For a Saint is his Wench , and a Psalm is his Catch . The Second part , to the same Tune . FOr the Lady of Virtue , & Honour so strict , That who offers her Guinneys deserves to be kick'd Who with sport by herself , does her fancy beguile , That's asham'd of a jest , and afraid of a smile : May she lie by herself , till she wear out the stairs , Going down to her Dinner , and up to her Prayers . But let us that have Noble and generous souls , No method observe , but in filling our bouls : Let us frolic it round , to replenish our veins , And with notions divine , to inspire our brains , 'Tis a way that's Gentile , and is found to be good , Both to quicken the Wit , and enliven the blood . What a pleasure it is to see bottles before us , With the women among us to make up the Chorus ? Now a Jest , now a Catch , now a Buss , now a Health , Till our pleasure comes on by insensible stealth , And when grown to a height , with our Girls we retire By a brisker enjoyment , to slacken the fire . And this is the way that the wiser doe take , A perpetual motion in pleasure to make : With a flood of Obrian , we fill up each vein , All the Spirits of which love's Limbeck must drain : While the soberer Sot , has no motion of blood , For his fancy is nothing but puddle and Mud. He's a slave to his soul , who in spite of his sense , With a Clog of his own putting on can dispense , For he Fetters himself , when at large he might rove , So he's ty'd from the sweets of good drinking and love , Yet he's satisfied well , that he's thought to be wise , By the Dull and foolish : I mean the precise . For my part whatever the consequence be , To my will and my fancy , i'le always be free , They are mad that do wilfully run upon shelves , Since dangers , and troubles , will come of themselves , For whoever desires to live like a man , He must be without trouble as long as he can . And these are the pleasures true Gallants do find , To which if you are not , you should be enclin'd , If you follow my counsel , you take off the curse , And if you do not , we are never the worse : Yet none will refuse but a Beggar or Cit , Who to carry on the humour , wants Money or Wit . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 