A New BALLAD . The Triumph of Justice . Being the Last SPEECH and CONFESSION of Nine Malefactors , and Betrayers of the Lives and Liberties of the Good People of ENGLAND . But few Examples here are made Of such as have our Laws betray'd : The rest that have as ill Deserv'd For the next Sessions are Reserv'd . To the Tune of Packington's Pound . I Am glad the happy Time is come , when Justice dare appear in open view . I am blind indeed , to signify my impartial Dispensation of Justice to all the World ; but though my Eyes are shut , my Ears are always open to the Complaints of Mankind ; and among all the Countries I preside over , no Place has so bewailed my Absence as England . This has been the most unhappy Nation in the World . This Place has bred the Monsters of Mankind , and under what Villainies has this brave People groan'd for many Years ? But now , my Friends , I JUSTICE am return'd ; and so long as you main - tain your Noble English Principles , I will never forsake you : And that you may believe I resolve to establish you upon the firmest Foundation , I have brought some of the Betrayers of your Country to be punish'd in the sighed of this Great People . I have weighed these Men in my Balance , and have found them the lightest that ever these Scals boar ; there - before now my Sword takes place , I have brought them to Judgement , and will attend their Execution , and let all the Na - cion Triumph : for by such Sacrifices Heaven is appeased . GOOD English-men , Women and Children give ear , Unto the Confession that we shall rehearse , 'Tis the dolefullest Story you ever did hear , By ourselves writ in Prose , by Friend Baize put in Verse . To be great was my Scope , To the Devil and Pope , A Slave to Ambition , that ends in a Rope ; For betraying Fair London , her Gates claim my Quarters , Take warning by me you Supplanters of Charters . I car'd not for Precedent , Conscience or Law , Bear witness all you whom I have hang'd in the West , If ever I valu'd Men's Lives of a Straw , But could sentence a Prisoner , and then break a Jest . The Sword and the Gun Left the Work but half done , My Breath more destructive , slew Ten for their One ; For I never gave Quarter where once I did seize , The World curs'd me for't , but I knew whom to please . On the Bench I could roar till I made the Walls shake , In Court Ecclesiastic could hector the Church ; And Evidence too for a need I could make , E're I'd suffer the Cause to be left in the Lurch . 'Twixt the Curtains I god , Spy'd a Child reaking hight , Which the Mother n'ere boar , nor the Father n'ere go My Eyes are the Vouchers of what I depose , If you question my Eyes , I appeal to my Nose . In Wapping at last I was snap'd by surprise , Thence dragg'd like a Varlet before my Lord-Mayor , Where I had the Honour , in spite of Disguise , Out of his small Senses his Lordship to scare : Thus much by the way Of Caution to say , Seem'd needful , for those that their Country betray , 'Twill sooner or later bring hanging about , So farewell , and take notice that now my Dream's out . 'TIS Matter of wonderment , how such a Varlet As I am , and of so vile Reputation , Should all on a sudden be clothed in Scarlet , Of Old none but Lawyers were fit for that Station : 'Tis best to be plain , To conceal 't is in vain , It was to hang Armstrong that thither I came . And if you'l know more , give ear , I beseech , To the words of Lord Wem , in and Eloquent Speech . The Office of Judge , 'tis true , it a Trust is , And that you , Brother Hol. are not fit for that Place , Because , it is plain , you want Sense , Law , and Justice . Dispense with the Laws , we'll dispense in that Case : Do but do as you'r bid , You shall never be chid ; I may ride Tantivy , but you must be rid . Young Jack will get practice , who at present has none ; So that I'm to be hang'd for the Good of my Son. ABhorring Petitions brought me into Play , It dubb'd me a Knight , and it made me a Judge , I resolv'd for Advancement , I car'd not what way ; And now have Preferment that no Man will grudge : To comply with the Court , Without Precedent for't , I thought three miles Whipping a Progress too shor A Sentence that made me abhorr'd by Mankind , Yet was sorry that I no worse Penance could find . On Jefferies I fastened , and stuck like a Burr , Like a Dog lick'd his Feet , slunk my Tail , hung my Ears ; But at last my Patroon kick'd me out like a Cur ; A Misfortune that then cost me many Salt Tears . the Perverters of Law , Before I withdraw , Take a word of Good Counsel to keep you in awe : Dispensers with Laws may escape for a Time , But Tyburn will never dispense with the Crime . SUborners were we , by some call'd the Pope's Mutes , Enrich'd by destroying of Free Corporations , And now of our Treachery reap the Just Fruits , Who for Pelf made no Bones of destroying three Nations . Such and infamous Brace , Does the Gallows Disgrace , And makes ev'n the Hangman asham'd of his Place : He grudges his Office on such wicked Elves , And could wish for his Part we had hanged ourselves . Like Villains abandoning Conscience and Shame , No Practice we baulk'd , but could Bribe , Forge and Lie ; Like Bloodhounds could dext'rously find out the Game , While a Kennel of Witnesses kept up the Cry . To Collogue with the Court , Of Men's Lives we made sport ; Old Dogs at Intrigues , but now must swing for't , With a Leash of vile Foremen of Juries that follows , Whom we then brought to Murders , and now to the Gallows . MAke room for such Varlets as n'ere cumber'd Sledg , The perjur'd vile Juries three Foremen are we , Our Number falls right , and we claim privilege T' have each Man his Beam on the Triangle Tree . In Verdict agreed , Like a true Tory Breed , To show ourselves Loyal , made th' Innocent Bleed : And after like Miscreants bragg'd of our Jobs , But we must give place to our Orator Nobbs . ROom , room for Old Roger , the Scourge of the Nation , Through all my Disguises I cannot escape , I had better have stuck to my Trade of Translation , Than have undertook to be guide to the Crape : I instructed the Raw , And taught them to draw Good found true Divinity out of false Law : Till Preachers and Pleaders came down with their Guinies , Which I pocketed up , and then laugh'd at the Ninnies . The Rights of the Subject by me were well known ; The Frame of our Government none better knew : I wrote 'gainst my Conscience , and Knowledge , I own , But with Fools , not Philosophers , I had to do . Take warning each Wight That for Pensions do write , The practice may make a poor Scoundrel a Knigh But when you have Scribbled , Buffoon'd , and Harangu'd , Th' next step of Preferment will be to be Hang'd . FINIS . A New BALLAD . The Triumph of Justice . Being the Last SPEECH and CONFESSION of Nine Malefactors , and Betrayers of the Lives and Liberties of the Good People of ENGLAND . But few Examples here are made Of such as have our Laws betray'd : The rest that have as ill Deserv'd For the next Sessions are Reserv'd . To the Tune of Packington's Pound . I Am glad the happy Time is come , when Justice dare appear in open view . I am blind indeed , to signify my impartial Dispensation of Justice to all the World ; but though my Eyes are shut , my Ears are always open to the Complaints of Mankind ; and among all the Countries I preside over , no Place has so bewailed my Absence as England . This has been the most unhappy Nation in the World . This Place has bred the Monsters of Mankind , and under what Villainies has this brave People groan'd for many Years ? But now , my Friends , I JUSTICE am return'd ; and so long as you main - tain your Noble English Principles , I will never forsake you : And that you may believe I resolve to establish you upon the firmest Foundation , I have brought some of the Betrayers of your Country to be punish'd in the sighed of this Great People . I have weighed these Men in my Balance , and have found them the lightest that ever these Scals boar ; there - before now my Sword takes place , I have brought them to Judgement , and will attend their Execution , and let all the Na - cion Triumph : for by such Sacrifices Heaven is appeased . GOOD English-men , Women and Children give ear , Unto the Confession that we shall rehearse , 'Tis the dolefullest Story you ever did hear , By ourselves writ in Prose , by Friend Baize put in Verse . To be great was my Scope , To the Devil and Pope , A Slave to Ambition , that ends in a Rope ; For betraying Fair London , her Gates claim my Quarters , Take warning by me you Supplanters of Charters . I car'd not for Precedent , Conscience or Law , Bear witness all you whom I have hang'd in the West , If ever I valu'd Men's Lives of a Straw , But could sentence a Prisoner , and then break a Jest . The Sword and the Gun Left the Work but half done , My Breath more destructive , slew Ten for their One ; For I never gave Quarter where once I did seize , The World curs'd me for't , but I knew whom to please . On the Bench I could roar till I made the Walls shake , In Court Ecclesiastic could hector the Church ; And Evidence too for a need I could make , E're I'd suffer the Cause to be left in the Lurch . 'Twixt the Curtains I god , Spy'd a Child reaking hight , Which the Mother n'ere boar , nor the Father n'ere go My Eyes are the Vouchers of what I depose , If you question my Eyes , I appeal to my Nose . In Wapping at last I was snap'd by surprise , Thence dragg'd like a Varlet before my Lord-Mayor , Where I had the Honour , in spite of Disguise , Out of his small Senses his Lordship to scare : Thus much by the way Of Caution to say , Seem'd needful , for those that their Country betray , 'Twill sooner or later bring hanging about , So farewell , and take notice that now my Dream's out . 'TIS Matter of wonderment , how such a Varlet As I am , and of so vile Reputation , Should all on a sudden be clothed in Scarlet , Of Old none but Lawyers were fit for that Station : 'Tis best to be plain , To conceal 't is in vain , It was to hang Armstrong that thither I came . And if you'l know more , give ear , I beseech , To the words of Lord Wem , in and Eloquent Speech . The Office of Judge , 'tis true , it a Trust is , And that you , Brother Hol. are not fit for that Place , Because , it is plain , you want Sense , Law , and Justice . Dispense with the Laws , we'll dispense in that Case : Do but do as you'r bid , You shall never be chid ; I may ride Tantivy , but you must be rid . Young Jack will get practice , who at present has none ; So that I'm to be hang'd for the Good of my Son. ABhorring Petitions brought me into Play , It dubb'd me a Knight , and it made me a Judge , I resolv'd for Advancement , I car'd not what way ; And now have Preferment that no Man will grudge : To comply with the Court , Without Precedent for't , I thought three miles Whipping a Progress too shor A Sentence that made me abhorr'd by Mankind , Yet was sorry that I no worse Penance could find . On Jefferies I fastened , and stuck like a Burr , Like a Dog lick'd his Feet , slunk my Tail , hung my Ears ; But at last my Patroon kick'd me out like a Cur ; A Misfortune that then cost me many Salt Tears . the Perverters of Law , Before I withdraw , Take a word of Good Counsel to keep you in awe : Dispensers with Laws may escape for a Time , But Tyburn will never dispense with the Crime . SUborners were we , by some call'd the Pope's Mutes , Enrich'd by destroying of Free Corporations , And now of our Treachery reap the Just Fruits , Who for Pelf made no Bones of destroying three Nations . Such and infamous Brace , Does the Gallows Disgrace , And makes ev'n the Hangman asham'd of his Place : He grudges his Office on such wicked Elves , And could wish for his Part we had hanged ourselves . Like Villains abandoning Conscience and Shame , No Practice we baulk'd , but could Bribe , Forge and Lie ; Like Bloodhounds could dext'rously find out the Game , While a Kennel of Witnesses kept up the Cry . To Collogue with the Court , Of Men's Lives we made sport ; Old Dogs at Intrigues , but now must swing for't , With a Leash of vile Foremen of Juries that follows , Whom we then brought to Murders , and now to the Gallows . MAke room for such Varlets as n'ere cumber'd Sledg , The perjur'd vile Juries three Foremen are we , Our Number falls right , and we claim privilege T' have each Man his Beam on the Triangle Tree . In Verdict agreed , Like a true Tory Breed , To show ourselves Loyal , made th' Innocent Bleed : And after like Miscreants bragg'd of our Jobs , But we must give place to our Orator Nobbs . ROom , room for Old Roger , the Scourge of the Nation , Through all my Disguises I cannot escape , I had better have stuck to my Trade of Translation , Than have undertook to be guide to the Crape : I instructed the Raw , And taught them to draw Good found true Divinity out of false Law : Till Preachers and Pleaders came down with their Guinies , Which I pocketed up , and then laugh'd at the Ninnies . The Rights of the Subject by me were well known ; The Frame of our Government none better knew : I wrote 'gainst my Conscience , and Knowledge , I own , But with Fools , not Philosophers , I had to do . Take warning each Wight That for Pensions do write , The practice may make a poor Scoundrel a Knigh But when you have Scribbled , Buffoon'd , and Harangu'd , Th' next step of Preferment will be to be Hang'd . FINIS . 