The Country Miss new come in Fashion ; OR , A farewell to the Pockifi'd Town-Miss . A Country Girl in a Paragon Gown , That never yet knew the tricks of the town ; Did lately delude a taring Gallant , Who just such and innocent Virgin did want , and since he's enjoy'd her I herd him protest That of all other Misses she pleased him best . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune , Called , The mock Tune to the French Rant . With Allowance . GIve me the Lass that's true Country bred , With paragon gown , straw Hat on her head ; Feeding upon good Bacon and Beans , But never knew what jilting means . What though her skin be tawny and course , Flocks she lies on , she'l kiss ne'r the worse ; Clap she ne'r had like Miss of the Town , That's painted and patched , and lies up and down . What though her speech be simple and plain , She knows not what flattering compliments mean ; If bawdy you speak , she blushes & smiles , Such innocent charms stead of beauty beguiles . Free from distempers in every part , Where ever she likes she loves from her heart , She's not for a minute like those of the Trade , For pleasing enjoyment forever she's made . She has not the trick of forcing delight , But acts with like pleasures each day & each night Each moment she's dying , so hight is her fire , And never does kiss but with perfect desire . So found is her Nature , she's always in health , Her kisses are sweet which she gives me by stealth When e're I am dull , and fit sighing alone , She'l sing me a song of young Tommy and Jone . The hair of her head is as black as a Crow , She's very well shap'd , not too high nor too low ; All parts are inviting in e'ry degree , Especially those we are forbidden to see . My Nanny and I ( for that is her name ) So equally manage now each others flame , That neither's deceiv'd , nor can ever be cloy'd , But both alike brisk after pleasure's enjoy'd . Our Misses o' th' Town act contrariwise , They ne'r take delight but in hope's of a prize ; Their desire is pall'd before they begin , Because they each day make a Trade of their Sin. Their blood is corrupted , their bodies are fowl , They swear loud enough to damn body and soul ; They clap all their Cullies , and their pockets pick , And send the young sop home for a while to be sick . With a doze of rare Pills , & some other fine slaps , They keep 'em selves under the notion of Claps , Which else would arrive to the bridge of the nose , But that they prevent by a Turpentine doze . My Nanny and I are free from disease , We ne'r are in danger let's do what we please ; We hug and we kiss , we sport and we play , And for pleasures we study to find a new way . What though her country Tones does seem rude , And cannot with eloquence others delude , 'Tis no matter for that , she has wone my heart so , I shall love her for ever for a trick that I know . Beyond all expressing she sweetens our joys , And doubtless she's full of fine Girls and fine boys She's kind and she's true , & so constant does prove , She ne'r will admit any Rival in Love . The Butterfly Miss may scoff if she will , And swear that my Country Nanny wants skill : To sport and to kiss , but i'le vow she's deceiv'd , She has judgement enough if I may be believ'd . Such harmless embraces would ravish ones soul , Though old age and envy stand by to control , Her kisses a man almost dead will revive , No better are had from no woman alive . All that I have said of my Nanny is true , And more she deserves if I gave her her endue , But this shall suffice , and my labour i'le save , Lest you all fallen a longing for what you can't have FINIS . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden Key on Snow - hill , over-a-gainst St. Sepulchres-Church , near the Sarazens-head . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of Books and Ballads . The Country Miss new come in Fashion ; OR , A farewell to the Pockifi'd Town-Miss . A Country Girl in a Paragon Gown , That never yet knew the tricks of the town ; Did lately delude a taring Gallant , Who just such and innocent Virgin did want , and since he's enjoy'd her I herd him protest That of all other Misses she pleased him best . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune , Called , The mock Tune to the French Rant . With Allowance . GIve me the Lass that's true Country bred , With paragon gown , straw Hat on her head ; Feeding upon good Bacon and Beans , But never knew what jilting means . What though her skin be tawny and course , Flocks she lies on , she'l kiss ne'r the worse ; Clap she ne'r had like Miss of the Town , That's painted and patched , and lies up and down . What though her speech be simple and plain , She knows not what flattering compliments mean ; If bawdy you speak , she blushes & smiles , Such innocent charms stead of beauty beguiles . Free from distempers in every part , Where ever she likes she loves from her heart , She's not for a minute like those of the Trade , For pleasing enjoyment forever she's made . She has not the trick of forcing delight , But acts with like pleasures each day & each night Each moment she's dying , so hight is her fire , And never does kiss but with perfect desire . So found is her Nature , she's always in health , Her kisses are sweet which she gives me by stealth When e're I am dull , and fit sighing alone , She'l sing me a song of young Tommy and Jone . The hair of her head is as black as a Crow , She's very well shap'd , not too high nor too low ; All parts are inviting in e'ry degree , Especially those we are forbidden to see . My Nanny and I ( for that is her name ) So equally manage now each others flame , That neither's deceiv'd , nor can ever be cloy'd , But both alike brisk after pleasure's enjoy'd . Our Misses o' th' Town act contrariwise , They ne'r take delight but in hope's of a prize ; Their desire is pall'd before they begin , Because they each day make a Trade of their Sin. Their blood is corrupted , their bodies are fowl , They swear loud enough to damn body and soul ; They clap all their Cullies , and their pockets pick , And send the young sop home for a while to be sick . With a doze of rare Pills , & some other fine slaps , They keep 'em selves under the notion of Claps , Which else would arrive to the bridge of the nose , But that they prevent by a Turpentine doze . My Nanny and I are free from disease , We ne'r are in danger let's do what we please ; We hug and we kiss , we sport and we play , And for pleasures we study to find a new way . What though her country Tones does seem rude , And cannot with eloquence others delude , 'Tis no matter for that , she has wone my heart so , I shall love her for ever for a trick that I know . Beyond all expressing she sweetens our joys , And doubtless she's full of fine Girls and fine boys She's kind and she's true , & so constant does prove , She ne'r will admit any Rival in Love . The Butterfly Miss may scoff if she will , And swear that my Country Nanny wants skill : To sport and to kiss , but i'le vow she's deceiv'd , She has judgement enough if I may be believ'd . Such harmless embraces would ravish ones soul , Though old age and envy stand by to control , Her kisses a man almost dead will revive , No better are had from no woman alive . All that I have said of my Nanny is true , And more she deserves if I gave her her endue , But this shall suffice , and my labour i'le save , Lest you all fallen a longing for what you can't have FINIS . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden Key on Snow - hill , over-a-gainst St. Sepulchres-Church , near the Sarazens-head . Where any Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of Books and Ballads . 