Hunting of CHEVY CHASE . GOD prosper long our noble King , Our lives and Safeties all ; A woeful Hunting once there did In Chevy-Chase befall . To drive the Dear with Hound and Horn , Earl Piercy took his way ; The Child may rue , that is unborn , The hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland A vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scottish woods Three Summer's days to take ; The chiefest Hearts in Chevy-Chase To kill and bear away . The tidings to Earl Douglas came , In Scotland where he lay : Who sent Earl Piercy present word , He would prevent his sport . The English Earl not fearing this , Did to the Woods resort . With fifteen hundred Bow [ - ] men bold , All chosen Men of might , Who knew full well , in time of need , To aim their Shaft aright . The gallant Greyhouds swiftly ran , To chase the fallow Deer : On Monday they began to hunt , When Daylight did appear ; And long before High-Noon they had And hundred fat Bucks slave ; Then having din'd , the Drovers To rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the Hills , Well able to endure ; Their Backsides all , with special Care , That day were guarded sure . The hounds ran swiftly thro' the Woods , The nimble Deer to take ; And with their cries the Hills and Dales And Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , To view the tender Deer ; Quoth he , Earl Douglas promised This day to meet me here : If that I thought he would not come , No longer would I stay . With that , a brave young Gentleman Thus to the Earl did say ; Lo ! yonder does Earl Douglas come , His Men in Armour bright ; Full twenty hundred Scottish Spears , All marching in our Sighed ; All Men of pleasant Teviotdale , Fast by the river Tweed . Then cease your Sport , Earl Piercy said , And take your Bows with speed : And now with me , my Countrymen , Your Courage forth advance : For never was there Champion yet , In Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , But , since my Hap it were , I durst encounter Man for Man , With him to break a Spear . Earl Douglas . on a milkwhite steed , Most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the Company , Whose Armour shone like Gold : Show me ( he said ) whose Men you be , That hunt so boldly here , That , without my consent , do chase , And take my Fallow-Deer ? The Man that first did answer make , Was noble Piercy he ; Who said , We list not to declare , Nor show whose Men we be : Yet we will spend our dearest Blood , Thy chiefest Heart to slay . Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , And thus in Rage did say , Ere thus I will outbraved be ; One of us two shall die ; I know thee well , and Earl thou art ; Lord Piercy , so am I . But trust me , Piercy , Pity it were , And great Offence to kill Any of these our harmless Men ; For they have done no Ill. Let thou and I the Battle try , And set our Men aside . Accurs'd be he , Lord Piercy said , By whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant 'Squire forth ; With'rington was his Name , Who said , I would not have it told To Henry , our King , for shame , That e'er my Captain fought on Foot , And I stood looking on . You be two Earls , said With'rington , And I a 'Squire alone ; I'll do the best that do I may , While I have Pow'r to stand : While I have Pow'r to wield my sword , I'll fight with Heart and Hand . Our English Archers bent their Bows , Their Hearts were good and true ; At the first Flight of Arrows sent , Full Threescore Scots they slew . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn , Earl Douglas had the Bent ; A Captain mov'd with much Pride , Their Spears to Shivers sent . They clos'd full fast on ev'ry Side , No Slackness there was found ; And many a gallant Gentleman Lay gasping on the ground . O Christ ! it was a grief to see , And likewise for to hear The cries of Men lying in their Gore , And scatter'd here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , Like Captains of great Might ; Like Lions mov'd , they laid on Load , And made a cruel fight ; They fought until they both did sweat , With Swords of temper'd Steel , Until the Blood , like drops of rain , They trickling down did feel . Yield thee , Lord Piercy , Douglas said ; In faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be By James our Scottish King : Thy Ransom I will freely give , And thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight That ever I did see . To Douglas , quoth Earl Piercy then , Thy Proffer I do scorn ; I will not yield to any Scot That ever yet was born . With that , there came and arrow keen Out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the Heart A deep and deadly Blow : Who never spoke more Words than these , Fight on , my merry Men all ; For why , my Life is at and End : Lord Piercy sees me fallen . Then leaving Life , Earl piercy took The dead Man by the Hand ; And said , Earl Douglas , for thy Life Would I had lost my Land Oh Christ ! my very Heart does bleed With Sorrow for thy sake ; For sure , a more renowned Knight Mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , Which saw Earl Douglas die , Who strait in Wrath did vow Revenge Upon the Earl Piercy : Sir Hugh Montgomery was he call'd , Who , with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , Ran fiercely thro' the Fight ; And pass'd the English Archers all , Without all Dread or Fear ; And thro' Earl Piercy's Body then He thrust his hateful Spear : With such a veh'ment Force and Might , He did his Body gore , The Spear went through the other Side A large Cloth-yard or more . So thus did both these Nobles die . Whose Courage none could stain . And English Archer then perceiv'd The Noble Earl was slave ; He had a Bow bent in his hand , Made of a trusty Tree ; And Arrow of a Cloth-yard long Up to the Head drew he : Against Sir Hugh Montgomery So right his Shaft he set , The gray Goosewing that was thereon In his Heart's Blood was wet . This Fight did last from break of Day Till setting of the Sun , For when they rung the Ev'ning Bell , The Battle scarce was done . With the Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogerton , Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron : And with Sir George and good Sir James , Both Knights of good Account , Good Sir Ralph Raby there was slave . Whose Prowess did surmount . For With'rington needs must I wail , As one in doleful Damps ; For when his Legs were smitten off , He fought upon his Stumps . And with Earl Douglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery ; Sir Charles Currell , that from the Field One foot would never fly . Sir Charles Murrel , of Ratcliff , too , His Sister's Son was he ; Sir David Lamb , so well esteem'd : They saved could not be . And the Lord Maxwell in likewise Did with Earl Douglas die : Of Twenty Hundred Scottish Spears Scarce Fiftyfive did fly . Of Fifteen hundred English Men Went home but Fifty three ; The rest were slave in Chevy-Chase Under the Greenwood Tree . Next Day did many Widows come , Their Husbands to bewail ; They wash'd their wounds in brinish Tears But all would not prevail . Their bodies , bath'd in purple blood , They boar with them away ; They kiss'd them dead a thousand times , When they were clad in Clay . This News was brought to Edinburgh , Where Scotland's King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly Was with and Arrow slave . O heavy News ! King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more Of such Account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came , Within as short a Space , That Piercy , of Northumberland , Was slave in Chevy-Chase . Now God be with him , said our King , Sith 'twill no better be ; I trust I have within my Realm Five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot , or Scotland say , But I will Vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , For brave Earl Piercy's sake . This Vow full well the King perform'd After , on Humbledown ; In one Day , Fifty Knights were slave , With Lords of great Kenown : And of the rest , of small Account , Did many Thousands die : Thus ended the hunting of Chevy-Cha [ s ] e , Made by the Earl Piercy . God save the King , and bless the Land , In Plenty , Joy , and Peace ; And grant henceforth , that foul Debate 'Twixt Noblemen may cease . [ Printed by DUNNING , in Windsor . ] Hunting of CHEVY CHASE . GOD prosper long our noble King , Our lives and Safeties all ; A woeful Hunting once there did In Chevy-Chase befall . To drive the Dear with Hound and Horn , Earl Piercy took his way ; The Child may rue , that is unborn , The hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland A vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scottish woods Three Summer's days to take ; The chiefest Hearts in Chevy-Chase To kill and bear away . The tidings to Earl Douglas came , In Scotland where he lay : Who sent Earl Piercy present word , He would prevent his sport . The English Earl not fearing this , Did to the Woods resort . With fifteen hundred Bow [ - ] men bold , All chosen Men of might , Who knew full well , in time of need , To aim their Shaft aright . The gallant Greyhouds swiftly ran , To chase the fallow Deer : On Monday they began to hunt , When Daylight did appear ; And long before High-Noon they had And hundred fat Bucks slave ; Then having din'd , the Drovers To rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the Hills , Well able to endure ; Their Backsides all , with special Care , That day were guarded sure . The hounds ran swiftly thro' the Woods , The nimble Deer to take ; And with their cries the Hills and Dales And Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , To view the tender Deer ; Quoth he , Earl Douglas promised This day to meet me here : If that I thought he would not come , No longer would I stay . With that , a brave young Gentleman Thus to the Earl did say ; Lo ! yonder does Earl Douglas come , His Men in Armour bright ; Full twenty hundred Scottish Spears , All marching in our Sighed ; All Men of pleasant Teviotdale , Fast by the river Tweed . Then cease your Sport , Earl Piercy said , And take your Bows with speed : And now with me , my Countrymen , Your Courage forth advance : For never was there Champion yet , In Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , But , since my Hap it were , I durst encounter Man for Man , With him to break a Spear . Earl Douglas . on a milkwhite steed , Most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the Company , Whose Armour shone like Gold : Show me ( he said ) whose Men you be , That hunt so boldly here , That , without my consent , do chase , And take my Fallow-Deer ? The Man that first did answer make , Was noble Piercy he ; Who said , We list not to declare , Nor show whose Men we be : Yet we will spend our dearest Blood , Thy chiefest Heart to slay . Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , And thus in Rage did say , Ere thus I will outbraved be ; One of us two shall die ; I know thee well , and Earl thou art ; Lord Piercy , so am I . But trust me , Piercy , Pity it were , And great Offence to kill Any of these our harmless Men ; For they have done no Ill. Let thou and I the Battle try , And set our Men aside . Accurs'd be he , Lord Piercy said , By whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant 'Squire forth ; With'rington was his Name , Who said , I would not have it told To Henry , our King , for shame , That e'er my Captain fought on Foot , And I stood looking on . You be two Earls , said With'rington , And I a 'Squire alone ; I'll do the best that do I may , While I have Pow'r to stand : While I have Pow'r to wield my sword , I'll fight with Heart and Hand . Our English Archers bent their Bows , Their Hearts were good and true ; At the first Flight of Arrows sent , Full Threescore Scots they slew . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn , Earl Douglas had the Bent ; A Captain mov'd with much Pride , Their Spears to Shivers sent . They clos'd full fast on ev'ry Side , No Slackness there was found ; And many a gallant Gentleman Lay gasping on the ground . O Christ ! it was a grief to see , And likewise for to hear The cries of Men lying in their Gore , And scatter'd here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , Like Captains of great Might ; Like Lions mov'd , they laid on Load , And made a cruel fight ; They fought until they both did sweat , With Swords of temper'd Steel , Until the Blood , like drops of rain , They trickling down did feel . Yield thee , Lord Piercy , Douglas said ; In faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be By James our Scottish King : Thy Ransom I will freely give , And thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight That ever I did see . To Douglas , quoth Earl Piercy then , Thy Proffer I do scorn ; I will not yield to any Scot That ever yet was born . With that , there came and arrow keen Out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the Heart A deep and deadly Blow : Who never spoke more Words than these , Fight on , my merry Men all ; For why , my Life is at and End : Lord Piercy sees me fallen . Then leaving Life , Earl piercy took The dead Man by the Hand ; And said , Earl Douglas , for thy Life Would I had lost my Land Oh Christ ! my very Heart does bleed With Sorrow for thy sake ; For sure , a more renowned Knight Mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , Which saw Earl Douglas die , Who strait in Wrath did vow Revenge Upon the Earl Piercy : Sir Hugh Montgomery was he call'd , Who , with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , Ran fiercely thro' the Fight ; And pass'd the English Archers all , Without all Dread or Fear ; And thro' Earl Piercy's Body then He thrust his hateful Spear : With such a veh'ment Force and Might , He did his Body gore , The Spear went through the other Side A large Cloth-yard or more . So thus did both these Nobles die . Whose Courage none could stain . And English Archer then perceiv'd The Noble Earl was slave ; He had a Bow bent in his hand , Made of a trusty Tree ; And Arrow of a Cloth-yard long Up to the Head drew he : Against Sir Hugh Montgomery So right his Shaft he set , The gray Goosewing that was thereon In his Heart's Blood was wet . This Fight did last from break of Day Till setting of the Sun , For when they rung the Ev'ning Bell , The Battle scarce was done . With the Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogerton , Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron : And with Sir George and good Sir James , Both Knights of good Account , Good Sir Ralph Raby there was slave . Whose Prowess did surmount . For With'rington needs must I wail , As one in doleful Damps ; For when his Legs were smitten off , He fought upon his Stumps . And with Earl Douglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery ; Sir Charles Currell , that from the Field One foot would never fly . Sir Charles Murrel , of Ratcliff , too , His Sister's Son was he ; Sir David Lamb , so well esteem'd : They saved could not be . And the Lord Maxwell in likewise Did with Earl Douglas die : Of Twenty Hundred Scottish Spears Scarce Fiftyfive did fly . Of Fifteen hundred English Men Went home but Fifty three ; The rest were slave in Chevy-Chase Under the Greenwood Tree . Next Day did many Widows come , Their Husbands to bewail ; They wash'd their wounds in brinish Tears But all would not prevail . Their bodies , bath'd in purple blood , They boar with them away ; They kiss'd them dead a thousand times , When they were clad in Clay . This News was brought to Edinburgh , Where Scotland's King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly Was with and Arrow slave . O heavy News ! King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more Of such Account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came , Within as short a Space , That Piercy , of Northumberland , Was slave in Chevy-Chase . Now God be with him , said our King , Sith 'twill no better be ; I trust I have within my Realm Five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot , or Scotland say , But I will Vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , For brave Earl Piercy's sake . This Vow full well the King perform'd After , on Humbledown ; In one Day , Fifty Knights were slave , With Lords of great Kenown : And of the rest , of small Account , Did many Thousands die : Thus ended the hunting of Chevy-Cha [ s ] e , Made by the Earl Piercy . God save the King , and bless the Land , In Plenty , Joy , and Peace ; And grant henceforth , that foul Debate 'Twixt Noblemen may cease . [ Printed by DUNNING , in Windsor . ] 