GOOD NEWES For all true hearted Subject's : VIDELICET , The PARLIAMENT goes on . Written by FRANCIS MUSSELL , Vintner . THough Times be troublous , yet true peace I bring To all who fear God , and obey the King . This Emblem thus deciphers the intent , What by the Ensign and the book are meant . The Ensign clear above his head does flourish , With joy to show that God his flock does nourish . The Book presents to us the Truth , in which W' are taught of God how to be truly rich : So to exemplify and keep out harms , Are barricado'd with the City Arms . Blessed be our God above , whose preservation Hath been to us , to all men's admiration . GOod news , true hearts , hear this , And be no longer sad : Though things have been amiss , Yet now we may be glad : Some were abusive , and too blame , Yet all shall well e're long Reformed be , let's bless Gods name : The Parliament goes on . Those that have been ill members In Church and Commonweal , And prov'd themselves dissemblers , Their Knaveries to heal , Shall plainly be unmasked , and then Must suffer for the wrong , Whereby they have oppressed poor men , The Parliament goes on . Some would have brought curs'd Popery Into this blessed Isle , With Masses , Crosses , Foppery , 'Twas fear'd , within a while . Their Beads and Holy-water Were false , and smelled too strong : But better news came after : The Parliament , etc No tricks of men inventions Can cross our just desires , Though base be the intentions Of Jesuites and Friars , That would obscure , if they knew how , The truth of every tongue ; But they'l be more discover'd now : The Parliament , etc Where sneak your lame Projectors That did men's means devour , The Commonwealths infectors , While they had any power . Poor children oft might want their bred , By tricks they snatched it from Them ; but such Rascals names are spread : The Parliament , etc The Judge unjust does tremble , When Truth does come to light ; Nor dares stay to dissemble , But run away by night . The conscience will declare most clear , What mischiefs men have done ; For now things plainly do appear , The Parliament goes on . Such men as have been faithful To God , King , State , and Land , Though vicious men be hateful , Yet honest men will stand , To venture coin and goods , nay this , Their life , even all they can , For truths sake , and true hearts that wish The Parliament go on . Alas we helpless Commons , Our hearts began to bleed , To swear to the new Cannons , Et Caetera , indeed : We might inthral'd ourselves thereby , If such a thread we 'ad spun : But we had grace them to deny , The Parliament goes on . Thus were we pinched and straightened , Nay almost stupify'de In sense , yet now well wakened By the true supreme Guide , Who never any heart forsakes , Whichever rests upon God , and his cares to him betakes : The Parliament goes on . To take the Protestation , Good subject's strive and choose ; No friends unto our Nation I think them that refuse . Religion must be perfect pure , Not wavering to turn , Then God will be with us , be sure , The Parliament , etc 2 Chr. 15.12 . Jam. 1.27 . Jam. 1.6 Matth. 28.20 . The King , Queen , and royal Progeny , God bless with many years . Lord , to this Nation ne're deny Good honest noble Peers ; That we reposing all our trust , In thee may flourish still : Then all our Foes shall be accursed , In hatching any ill . The Members of our Parliament , Lord give them happy days , With grace and truth , with one consent , Direct in all their ways , That all may for thy glory stand , Unto Eternity , Lord crown them in the Blessed Land , Amen , Amen , say I . Printed with Licence , by R.H. for T.B. and are to be sold at his shop in the Old Baily . 1641. GOOD NEWES For all true hearted Subject's : VIDELICET , The PARLIAMENT goes on . Written by FRANCIS MUSSELL , Vintner . THough Times be troublous , yet true peace I bring To all who fear God , and obey the King . This Emblem thus deciphers the intent , What by the Ensign and the book are meant . The Ensign clear above his head does flourish , With joy to show that God his flock does nourish . The Book presents to us the Truth , in which W' are taught of God how to be truly rich : So to exemplify and keep out harms , Are barricado'd with the City Arms . Blessed be our God above , whose preservation Hath been to us , to all men's admiration . GOod news , true hearts , hear this , And be no longer sad : Though things have been amiss , Yet now we may be glad : Some were abusive , and too blame , Yet all shall well e're long Reformed be , let's bless Gods name : The Parliament goes on . Those that have been ill members In Church and Commonweal , And prov'd themselves dissemblers , Their Knaveries to heal , Shall plainly be unmasked , and then Must suffer for the wrong , Whereby they have oppressed poor men , The Parliament goes on . Some would have brought curs'd Popery Into this blessed Isle , With Masses , Crosses , Foppery , 'Twas fear'd , within a while . Their Beads and Holy-water Were false , and smelled too strong : But better news came after : The Parliament , etc No tricks of men inventions Can cross our just desires , Though base be the intentions Of Jesuites and Friars , That would obscure , if they knew how , The truth of every tongue ; But they'l be more discover'd now : The Parliament , etc Where sneak your lame Projectors That did men's means devour , The Commonwealths infectors , While they had any power . Poor children oft might want their bred , By tricks they snatched it from Them ; but such Rascals names are spread : The Parliament , etc The Judge unjust does tremble , When Truth does come to light ; Nor dares stay to dissemble , But run away by night . The conscience will declare most clear , What mischiefs men have done ; For now things plainly do appear , The Parliament goes on . Such men as have been faithful To God , King , State , and Land , Though vicious men be hateful , Yet honest men will stand , To venture coin and goods , nay this , Their life , even all they can , For truths sake , and true hearts that wish The Parliament go on . Alas we helpless Commons , Our hearts began to bleed , To swear to the new Cannons , Et Caetera , indeed : We might inthral'd ourselves thereby , If such a thread we 'ad spun : But we had grace them to deny , The Parliament goes on . Thus were we pinched and straightened , Nay almost stupify'de In sense , yet now well wakened By the true supreme Guide , Who never any heart forsakes , Whichever rests upon God , and his cares to him betakes : The Parliament goes on . To take the Protestation , Good subject's strive and choose ; No friends unto our Nation I think them that refuse . Religion must be perfect pure , Not wavering to turn , Then God will be with us , be sure , The Parliament , etc 2 Chr. 15.12 . Jam. 1.27 . Jam. 1.6 Matth. 28.20 . The King , Queen , and royal Progeny , God bless with many years . Lord , to this Nation ne're deny Good honest noble Peers ; That we reposing all our trust , In thee may flourish still : Then all our Foes shall be accursed , In hatching any ill . The Members of our Parliament , Lord give them happy days , With grace and truth , with one consent , Direct in all their ways , That all may for thy glory stand , Unto Eternity , Lord crown them in the Blessed Land , Amen , Amen , say I . Printed with Licence , by R.H. for T.B. and are to be sold at his shop in the Old Baily . 1641. 