The Alewives Invitation to Married-Men , and Bachelors . SHOWING How a Good Fellow is slighted when he is brought to Poverty . Therefore take my Counsel , & Alewives don't trust , For when you have wasted , and spent all you have , Then out of Doors she will you headlong thrust , Calling you Rascal , and shirking Knave . But so long as you have Money , come early or late , You shall have her at Command , or else her Maid Kate . To a New Tune ; or , Digby's Farewell . GOod fellows come hither , 'tis to you I speak , Good Counsel here's for you , if you will it take , In thy Pockets may save thee many a Crown , Where ever thou walkest in City , or Town : It's known a Good fellow I've been many a year , And much have I spent in wine and strong beer : For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , come when thou wilt boy , thou art welcome to me . For she knew , late or early , apace I would call , And whoever drink it , yet I'd pay for all ; Which made her take delight much in my company ; But it more for the love of my money , then me : And so long as my credit and stock it would hold , Come early or late , I might have what I would : For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . But when I had wasted and consum'd my store , And had nothing to mortgage , or fell to make more , Unto my fine Hostess I then told me my tale , She must lend me some money , or I go to' th' Goal : Nay tarry , said she , I don't see it so rife , I'll not lend you a penny , if 'twould save your life : This was all the comfort that I god from she That always pretended my friend for to be . Therefore it is good to save something in store , Make much of a little , and 'twill increase more ; For the times they are hard , and money is scant , And by drinking there many a man comes to wan Then while you have goods , either house or yet land , Be sure to be careful , and keep 't in your hand . For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . Let a Man come to to and Alehouse tho' Clothes they be poor , And if that she sees you have silver good store , She'll bid you fit down , and you're welcome beside , And whatever you call for , you are not deny'd ; But when you have wasted , and consum'd your store , Away with this fellow , thrust him out of door : For you have , etc This by experience there's many finds true , Which makes both their backs , and their bellies to rue , While they have a penny , or credit will go , They ne'er will give o'er , tho' it brings them to woe , But there fit & tipple while a drop will go down : Come fill us more Liquour , tho' it cost me a Crown : Thus his Money does fly , and he wastes his Pelf , The next day he is ready to hang himself . Then let me advice all Good Fellows that be , Once learn to be wiser in e'er degree ; In your youthful days keep something in store , Lest you're forc'd when you're old , to beg at the door : Don't spend all thou get , to make others brave , When thy Wife & thy Children , ne'er a rag have . For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . But when thou hast good Monty make much of the same , Don't drink it , and spend it in and unlawful Game : And 'tis good for all young men to be well advis'd ; You see a good Husband to fortune does rise ; But a Spendthrift you see is regarded by none , His Word will not go , let him be ne'er so young . But while you have money , etc Though a Man he has Means , he may spend all he have , Then he unto others must be a bound slave ; Then he sighs , and he grieves when it is too late , He should be such a fool to part with his Estate : But while he liv'd bravely , Oh then day and night Drinking and Ranting it was his delight ; But now all is consumed wasted and gone , He may look o'th bore walls , & make his sad moan . For now he is slighted , because he's grown poor ; Nor none will him pity , nor increase his store , But mock him , and jear him , in his Poverty ; You might have been wiser they'll to him reply : So he is a Fool that will rant to make others brave , And all his life after , to live like a slave ; But he is a Wise Man , the which does take pains , And then lets his Family taste of the Gains . And thus all you young Men , you plainly may see , This Song it will learn you good Husbands to be , If thou goest to and Alehouse , and hast store of Cash , She'll make thee welcome so long as it lasts ; But when thy pockets are empty , & silver thou hast none ; She'l look slightly on thee , tho' thou makes sad moan : But so long as you've money , your kind Hostess she , Will cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . The Alewives Invitation to Married-Men , and Bachelors . SHOWING How a Good Fellow is slighted when he is brought to Poverty . Therefore take my Counsel , & Alewives don't trust , For when you have wasted , and spent all you have , Then out of Doors she will you headlong thrust , Calling you Rascal , and shirking Knave . But so long as you have Money , come early or late , You shall have her at Command , or else her Maid Kate . To a New Tune ; or , Digby's Farewell . GOod fellows come hither , 'tis to you I speak , Good Counsel here's for you , if you will it take , In thy Pockets may save thee many a Crown , Where ever thou walkest in City , or Town : It's known a Good fellow I've been many a year , And much have I spent in wine and strong beer : For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , come when thou wilt boy , thou art welcome to me . For she knew , late or early , apace I would call , And whoever drink it , yet I'd pay for all ; Which made her take delight much in my company ; But it more for the love of my money , then me : And so long as my credit and stock it would hold , Come early or late , I might have what I would : For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . But when I had wasted and consum'd my store , And had nothing to mortgage , or fell to make more , Unto my fine Hostess I then told me my tale , She must lend me some money , or I go to' th' Goal : Nay tarry , said she , I don't see it so rife , I'll not lend you a penny , if 'twould save your life : This was all the comfort that I god from she That always pretended my friend for to be . Therefore it is good to save something in store , Make much of a little , and 'twill increase more ; For the times they are hard , and money is scant , And by drinking there many a man comes to wan Then while you have goods , either house or yet land , Be sure to be careful , and keep 't in your hand . For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . Let a Man come to to and Alehouse tho' Clothes they be poor , And if that she sees you have silver good store , She'll bid you fit down , and you're welcome beside , And whatever you call for , you are not deny'd ; But when you have wasted , and consum'd your store , Away with this fellow , thrust him out of door : For you have , etc This by experience there's many finds true , Which makes both their backs , and their bellies to rue , While they have a penny , or credit will go , They ne'er will give o'er , tho' it brings them to woe , But there fit & tipple while a drop will go down : Come fill us more Liquour , tho' it cost me a Crown : Thus his Money does fly , and he wastes his Pelf , The next day he is ready to hang himself . Then let me advice all Good Fellows that be , Once learn to be wiser in e'er degree ; In your youthful days keep something in store , Lest you're forc'd when you're old , to beg at the door : Don't spend all thou get , to make others brave , When thy Wife & thy Children , ne'er a rag have . For so long as I had money , my kind Hostess she , Would cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . But when thou hast good Monty make much of the same , Don't drink it , and spend it in and unlawful Game : And 'tis good for all young men to be well advis'd ; You see a good Husband to fortune does rise ; But a Spendthrift you see is regarded by none , His Word will not go , let him be ne'er so young . But while you have money , etc Though a Man he has Means , he may spend all he have , Then he unto others must be a bound slave ; Then he sighs , and he grieves when it is too late , He should be such a fool to part with his Estate : But while he liv'd bravely , Oh then day and night Drinking and Ranting it was his delight ; But now all is consumed wasted and gone , He may look o'th bore walls , & make his sad moan . For now he is slighted , because he's grown poor ; Nor none will him pity , nor increase his store , But mock him , and jear him , in his Poverty ; You might have been wiser they'll to him reply : So he is a Fool that will rant to make others brave , And all his life after , to live like a slave ; But he is a Wise Man , the which does take pains , And then lets his Family taste of the Gains . And thus all you young Men , you plainly may see , This Song it will learn you good Husbands to be , If thou goest to and Alehouse , and hast store of Cash , She'll make thee welcome so long as it lasts ; But when thy pockets are empty , & silver thou hast none ; She'l look slightly on thee , tho' thou makes sad moan : But so long as you've money , your kind Hostess she , Will cry , Come when thou wilt , Boy , thou art welcome to me . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 