( 1 ) DAGON's Fallen : Or the KNIGHT Turn'd out of COMMISSION . GOod God! what means this sudden Alteration ! The Fop that has so long disturb'd the Nation , By's Pride , and Pomp , and Pow'r , is now Turn'd out , And hardly pity'd by the silly Rout. He was as Stout , and lofty as old Hector , Usurp'd the Power of our damn'd Protector ; As fierce and Cruel as a Tyger's whelp , He wanted neither strength , nor art , nor help To do and undo ; he was grown so great , That the Creation was amaz'd to see't . He had his Coach and Horses , Footmen too , And into th' City road , to make a show ; But little thought when drawn by W ------ His fatal downfall it had been so near . To put a Sword into a Madmans hand , It may make Bloody work within the Land. Papists and Protestants were all alike , Both sent to lodge with Church and thin-jaw'd Dyke . No Day scarce pass'd without some mischief done , Into all Companies the Fool did run . The Goaler sure gave him a snack of Fees , For Prisoners flocked ev'n like a Swarm of Bees . Here ten were sent him for a Popish Plot , There two more for to please a Buggering Sot. Then a new Plot is feign'd , and more secur'd , 'Uds flesh , my Friends , this cannot be endur'd ! Printers , Apprentices , and many more , In all I do believe near twice two score . They are all Plotters , yet by Jove not one , Can tell you what was said , or what was done . A The ( 2 ) The Gatehouse is become a Babel now , Confusions came upon us none knew how . But he that wrought the mischief now is found , 'Twill puzzle any man to prove him found . He's rotten at the heart i'le lay my life , No wonder he begotten us all this strife . Well , now the cause is gone , the effect will cease , I hope we shall enjoy our former peace . This little Leaven leaven'd the whole lump , And made us fear another saucy Rump . He study'd out new Plots , and for what ends ? Only to please his Prerbyterian friends . Ah but my Friend , thou thy last Dice hast thrown , For which the Presbyters begin to groan , Thy busy active Soul ( I do not jest ) Had lately sent it a Quietus est . And that which does thy grief and sorrow double , Thou art not Rich for all thy needless trouble . Soul take thine ease , thou very well mai'st sing , For thou hast god a Writ of ease from th' King : Thou hast much Goods laid up for many years , Sing that and I will give thee both my Ears . Leave but the Factious out , go through the City , Thou wilt not find a Man enclin'd to pity . Hang him cries one , he was a busy Knave , He she'wd no mercy , nor he none shall have . Mischief was all his aim , and his design , When he brought Hickey to a glass of Wine . The mischief which so eagerly he sought For others , he himself too dearly bough But I am almost weary of my Rhimes , For I consider these are Traitorous times . Had but this busy Fool his late Commission , This wou'd have cost me a devout Submission ; I had been surely sent to Goal for Treason As Thompson was , and had a greater reason : But God be thanked curst-Cows have short Horns , He must and shall endure our Flouts and Scorns . We may go boldly on , and fear no fallen ; No painted Staff will answer at his call . Now he is down , down with him , now's the Season ; For if he rise he'l Goal us all for TREASON . FINIS . ( 1 ) DAGON's Fallen : Or the KNIGHT Turn'd out of COMMISSION . GOod God! what means this sudden Alteration ! The Fop that has so long disturb'd the Nation , By's Pride , and Pomp , and Pow'r , is now Turn'd out , And hardly pity'd by the silly Rout. He was as Stout , and lofty as old Hector , Usurp'd the Power of our damn'd Protector ; As fierce and Cruel as a Tyger's whelp , He wanted neither strength , nor art , nor help To do and undo ; he was grown so great , That the Creation was amaz'd to see't . He had his Coach and Horses , Footmen too , And into th' City road , to make a show ; But little thought when drawn by W ------ His fatal downfall it had been so near . To put a Sword into a Madmans hand , It may make Bloody work within the Land. Papists and Protestants were all alike , Both sent to lodge with Church and thin-jaw'd Dyke . No Day scarce pass'd without some mischief done , Into all Companies the Fool did run . The Goaler sure gave him a snack of Fees , For Prisoners flocked ev'n like a Swarm of Bees . Here ten were sent him for a Popish Plot , There two more for to please a Buggering Sot. Then a new Plot is feign'd , and more secur'd , 'Uds flesh , my Friends , this cannot be endur'd ! Printers , Apprentices , and many more , In all I do believe near twice two score . They are all Plotters , yet by Jove not one , Can tell you what was said , or what was done . A The ( 2 ) The Gatehouse is become a Babel now , Confusions came upon us none knew how . But he that wrought the mischief now is found , 'Twill puzzle any man to prove him found . He's rotten at the heart i'le lay my life , No wonder he begotten us all this strife . Well , now the cause is gone , the effect will cease , I hope we shall enjoy our former peace . This little Leaven leaven'd the whole lump , And made us fear another saucy Rump . He study'd out new Plots , and for what ends ? Only to please his Prerbyterian friends . Ah but my Friend , thou thy last Dice hast thrown , For which the Presbyters begin to groan , Thy busy active Soul ( I do not jest ) Had lately sent it a Quietus est . And that which does thy grief and sorrow double , Thou art not Rich for all thy needless trouble . Soul take thine ease , thou very well mai'st sing , For thou hast god a Writ of ease from th' King : Thou hast much Goods laid up for many years , Sing that and I will give thee both my Ears . Leave but the Factious out , go through the City , Thou wilt not find a Man enclin'd to pity . Hang him cries one , he was a busy Knave , He she'wd no mercy , nor he none shall have . Mischief was all his aim , and his design , When he brought Hickey to a glass of Wine . The mischief which so eagerly he sought For others , he himself too dearly bough But I am almost weary of my Rhimes , For I consider these are Traitorous times . Had but this busy Fool his late Commission , This wou'd have cost me a devout Submission ; I had been surely sent to Goal for Treason As Thompson was , and had a greater reason : But God be thanked curst-Cows have short Horns , He must and shall endure our Flouts and Scorns . We may go boldly on , and fear no fallen ; No painted Staff will answer at his call . Now he is down , down with him , now's the Season ; For if he rise he'l Goal us all for TREASON . FINIS . 