HELLS Nightwalker : OR , The Devil in Petticoats . Being a dismal Ditty concerning two Gentlemen , who went to pick up a fine Lady , as they thought , walking in Covent-Garden , and after - wards over a Glass of wine , cast Lots who should lie with her that night , but that Gen - tleman , on whom the fatal Lot fell , was hurry'd away in the night , and never since herd on , the Lady being supposed to be a Devil , it being a timely warning to all peo - ple of that abominable since of Whoredom . Tune of , Forgive me if your looks I thought . GOod people all I pray give ear Unto this sad Relation , Its of a Demon you may hear dressed alamode in fashion , In Covent-Garden tother day two Gentlemen were walking , They spy'd a Mistress fine and gay , straight to her they went talking . No Lady e're was finer dressed with gaudy rich attire : These Gentlemen in words expressed , they did her much admire ; They Courted her some little time , she readily complied , They went to take a Glass of wine , she nothing then denied . And when at tavern they were god , each willing to employ her , So they cast Dice , and took their Lot , which should that night enjoy her , and he that god the Chance did think himself blessed above measure , Saying , I'll no longer stay to drink , but now for the nights pleasure . So to her Lodging as they thought , the Gentlemen went with her : When to the Chamber they were god one Gentleman did leave her , Wishing tother his hearts delight , then took his leave most civil ; But o the dismal dismal night , this Lady prov'd a devil . For when the Gentleman next day , thought to see his friend and Lady , He at the Chamber door straightway , did knock as hard as may be , But no one answering , till at length , the Landlord did much wonder , and asked him why with all that strength , he at the door did thunder . The Gentleman did straight reply , Pray Landlord , whats the meaning , Why this my Friend so long does lie ? sure Miss is mighty Charming . With that the Landlord then did say , the doors locked to my wonder , and on the inside is the Key , lets break the door asunder . then strait they went and broke the door to find what was the matter , Where soon they found upon the floor all up and down lay scatter'd ; Some places lay a Wig and Hat , Coat , Breaches , Money common : Put in the bed , pray mind but that , was neither Man , nor Woman . the Gentleman and Landlord too , at this were much amazed , they stood and knew not what to do , but on each other gazed , to miss the Lady and the Friend , they thought there must be Evil , So did conclude all in the end , the Woman was a Devil . Printed for Charles Barnet . HELLS Nightwalker : OR , The Devil in Petticoats . Being a dismal Ditty concerning two Gentlemen , who went to pick up a fine Lady , as they thought , walking in Covent-Garden , and after - wards over a Glass of wine , cast Lots who should lie with her that night , but that Gen - tleman , on whom the fatal Lot fell , was hurry'd away in the night , and never since herd on , the Lady being supposed to be a Devil , it being a timely warning to all peo - ple of that abominable since of Whoredom . Tune of , Forgive me if your looks I thought . GOod people all I pray give ear Unto this sad Relation , Its of a Demon you may hear dressed alamode in fashion , In Covent-Garden tother day two Gentlemen were walking , They spy'd a Mistress fine and gay , straight to her they went talking . No Lady e're was finer dressed with gaudy rich attire : These Gentlemen in words expressed , they did her much admire ; They Courted her some little time , she readily complied , They went to take a Glass of wine , she nothing then denied . And when at tavern they were god , each willing to employ her , So they cast Dice , and took their Lot , which should that night enjoy her , and he that god the Chance did think himself blessed above measure , Saying , I'll no longer stay to drink , but now for the nights pleasure . So to her Lodging as they thought , the Gentlemen went with her : When to the Chamber they were god one Gentleman did leave her , Wishing tother his hearts delight , then took his leave most civil ; But o the dismal dismal night , this Lady prov'd a devil . For when the Gentleman next day , thought to see his friend and Lady , He at the Chamber door straightway , did knock as hard as may be , But no one answering , till at length , the Landlord did much wonder , and asked him why with all that strength , he at the door did thunder . The Gentleman did straight reply , Pray Landlord , whats the meaning , Why this my Friend so long does lie ? sure Miss is mighty Charming . With that the Landlord then did say , the doors locked to my wonder , and on the inside is the Key , lets break the door asunder . then strait they went and broke the door to find what was the matter , Where soon they found upon the floor all up and down lay scatter'd ; Some places lay a Wig and Hat , Coat , Breaches , Money common : Put in the bed , pray mind but that , was neither Man , nor Woman . the Gentleman and Landlord too , at this were much amazed , they stood and knew not what to do , but on each other gazed , to miss the Lady and the Friend , they thought there must be Evil , So did conclude all in the end , the Woman was a Devil . Printed for Charles Barnet . 