/ 2 A Godly Ballad of the Just Man Job . Wherein his great patience he does declare , His plagues and his misery's , and yet did not despair . The Tune is , The Merchant . WAlking all alone , No not long ago , I herd one wail and weep ; alas he said , I am laid In sorrow strong and deep , To hear him cry , I did reply , and privily abided , there did I find , in secret mind , the just and patient Job . His woeful pain Did me constrain , by force to wail and moan , God did him prove , how he did love , the living Lord alone . In heaviness , He did express , these words with bitter tears , alas poor man , wretched I am , in care my self out-wares . This mortal life , Is but a strife , a battle great and strong , my years also , to wast and go , and not continue long . The day wherein , I did begin to move and stir my breath , would God I had , and exchange made , and turned unto death . So should not I In misery , be wrapped as I am , the time and day , well curse I may , when to this world I came . For my faults past , I am outcast , and of all men abhor'd , Oh that I might , once stand in sighed , to reason with the Lord . I should then know , Why he does show this extreme cruelty , upon his flesh , which is but grass , and born is for to die . From top to toe , I feel with woe , that sorrow is my meat , put to exile , with Botch and Boil , and dunghill is my seat . My Kinsfolk talk And by me walk , wondering at my fallen , they count my state , unfortunate , and so forsake me all . My children five , Which were alive , they all be quite destroy'd , the Plague fell on my Cattle , with all that I enjoy'd . Should I for them My God Blaspheme , and his good gifts despise , that will I not , but take my lot , giving his name the praise . They were not mine , But for a time , I know well it is so , God gave them me , why should not he , again take them me from . Thus having said , Full still I stayed , his end for to behold , I there did see , his felicity , increasing manifold . I know well then , How patient men , should not suffer in vain , but shall be sure , to have pleasure , rewarded for their pain . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . / 2 A Godly Ballad of the Just Man Job . Wherein his great patience he does declare , His plagues and his misery's , and yet did not despair . The Tune is , The Merchant . WAlking all alone , No not long ago , I herd one wail and weep ; alas he said , I am laid In sorrow strong and deep , To hear him cry , I did reply , and privily abided , there did I find , in secret mind , the just and patient Job . His woeful pain Did me constrain , by force to wail and moan , God did him prove , how he did love , the living Lord alone . In heaviness , He did express , these words with bitter tears , alas poor man , wretched I am , in care my self out-wares . This mortal life , Is but a strife , a battle great and strong , my years also , to wast and go , and not continue long . The day wherein , I did begin to move and stir my breath , would God I had , and exchange made , and turned unto death . So should not I In misery , be wrapped as I am , the time and day , well curse I may , when to this world I came . For my faults past , I am outcast , and of all men abhor'd , Oh that I might , once stand in sighed , to reason with the Lord . I should then know , Why he does show this extreme cruelty , upon his flesh , which is but grass , and born is for to die . From top to toe , I feel with woe , that sorrow is my meat , put to exile , with Botch and Boil , and dunghill is my seat . My Kinsfolk talk And by me walk , wondering at my fallen , they count my state , unfortunate , and so forsake me all . My children five , Which were alive , they all be quite destroy'd , the Plague fell on my Cattle , with all that I enjoy'd . Should I for them My God Blaspheme , and his good gifts despise , that will I not , but take my lot , giving his name the praise . They were not mine , But for a time , I know well it is so , God gave them me , why should not he , again take them me from . Thus having said , Full still I stayed , his end for to behold , I there did see , his felicity , increasing manifold . I know well then , How patient men , should not suffer in vain , but shall be sure , to have pleasure , rewarded for their pain . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 