A Lamentable Ballad of Little Musgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and Excellent new Tune . AS it fell out on a high Holiday , as many more be in the year , Musgrove would to the Church and prey , to see the fair Lady's there : Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , which did to the Church repair . Some came down in read Velvet , and some came down in Pall , Then next came down my Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all ; She cast a look on little Musgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well then perceived little Musgrove , Lady Barnets love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , saluted the little Musgrove , Who did reply her kind Courtesy , with favour and gentle love : I have a Bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with Cowslips sweet , If that you please little Musgrove , in love me there to meet . Within my arms one night to sleep , for you my love have wone , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone : Betide my life betide my death , this night I will lie with thee , And for thy sake I'll hazard my breath , so dear is thy love to me . What shall we do with our little Foot-page , our Counsel for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet come , while we together sleep : Read gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and silver shall be his fee . So he our counsel safely keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your gold , he said , nor none of your silver fee , If I should keep your counsel Sir , 'twere great Disloyalty : I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for land . But if my Lady prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little Foot-page , unto his Lord with speed , He then was feasting with his own Friends , not dreaming of this deed , Most speedily the Page did haste , most swiftly he did run , And when he came to the broken Bridge , he bent his breast and swam . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to the Lord with speed , That he the truth might tell to him , concerning this wicked deed : He found his Lord at supper then , great merriment they did keep , My lord , quod he , this night on my word , Musgrove with your lady does sleep . IF this be true my little Foot-page , and true that thou tellest to me , My eldest Daughter I'll give thee , and wedded thou shalt be : If this be a lie my little Foot-page , and a lie thou tellest to me , A new pair of gallows shall be set up , and hanged thou shalt be . If this be a lie , my lord , said he , and a lie that thou hearest of me , Never stay a pair of gallows to make , but hang me upon the next Tree : Lord Barnet call'd his merry men all , away with speed he would go ; His heart was so perplexed with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , he said , and saddle me my white Steed , If this be true as the Page hath said , Musgrove shall repent this deed : He charged his men to make no noise , as they road along the way , Nor wind no horn ( quoth he ) for your life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , and respected his friendship most dear , To give notice lord Barnet was come , did wind the Bugle most clear : And evermore as he did found away Musgrove and away , For if he take thee with my lady , then slave thou shalt be this day . O hark fair lady , your lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your Arms thus , then slave I shall be I know : Oh lie still , lie still , little Musgrove , and keep my back from the cold , I know it is my Father's Shepherd , driving Sheep unto the Pinfold . Musgrove did turn him round about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet , When he did awake then did he espy , lord Barnet at the beds-fee Oh rise up , rise up , thou little Musgrove , and put thy clothing on , It never shall be said in England fair , that I slew a naked man . Here is two Swords , lord Barnet said , Musgrove thy choice now make . The best of them thy self shall have , and I the worst will take : The first blow Musgrove did strike , he wounded lord Barnet soar , The second blow lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his lady by the white hand , all love to rage tonvert , And with his Sword in furious wise , he pierc'd her tender hear A grave , a grave , lord Barnet cry'd , prepare to lay us in , My lady shall lie on the upper side , cause she's the better Skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which griev'd his friends full soar , The death of these three worthy wights , with tears they did deplore : This sad mischief by lust was wrought , then let us call for grace , That we may shun the wicked vice , and fly from since apace . Printed for A. B. W. D. and T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane . A Lamentable Ballad of Little Musgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and Excellent new Tune . AS it fell out on a high Holiday , as many more be in the year , Musgrove would to the Church and prey , to see the fair Lady's there : Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , which did to the Church repair . Some came down in read Velvet , and some came down in Pall , Then next came down my Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all ; She cast a look on little Musgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well then perceived little Musgrove , Lady Barnets love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , saluted the little Musgrove , Who did reply her kind Courtesy , with favour and gentle love : I have a Bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with Cowslips sweet , If that you please little Musgrove , in love me there to meet . Within my arms one night to sleep , for you my love have wone , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone : Betide my life betide my death , this night I will lie with thee , And for thy sake I'll hazard my breath , so dear is thy love to me . What shall we do with our little Foot-page , our Counsel for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet come , while we together sleep : Read gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and silver shall be his fee . So he our counsel safely keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your gold , he said , nor none of your silver fee , If I should keep your counsel Sir , 'twere great Disloyalty : I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for land . But if my Lady prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little Foot-page , unto his Lord with speed , He then was feasting with his own Friends , not dreaming of this deed , Most speedily the Page did haste , most swiftly he did run , And when he came to the broken Bridge , he bent his breast and swam . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to the Lord with speed , That he the truth might tell to him , concerning this wicked deed : He found his Lord at supper then , great merriment they did keep , My lord , quod he , this night on my word , Musgrove with your lady does sleep . IF this be true my little Foot-page , and true that thou tellest to me , My eldest Daughter I'll give thee , and wedded thou shalt be : If this be a lie my little Foot-page , and a lie thou tellest to me , A new pair of gallows shall be set up , and hanged thou shalt be . If this be a lie , my lord , said he , and a lie that thou hearest of me , Never stay a pair of gallows to make , but hang me upon the next Tree : Lord Barnet call'd his merry men all , away with speed he would go ; His heart was so perplexed with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , he said , and saddle me my white Steed , If this be true as the Page hath said , Musgrove shall repent this deed : He charged his men to make no noise , as they road along the way , Nor wind no horn ( quoth he ) for your life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , and respected his friendship most dear , To give notice lord Barnet was come , did wind the Bugle most clear : And evermore as he did found away Musgrove and away , For if he take thee with my lady , then slave thou shalt be this day . O hark fair lady , your lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your Arms thus , then slave I shall be I know : Oh lie still , lie still , little Musgrove , and keep my back from the cold , I know it is my Father's Shepherd , driving Sheep unto the Pinfold . Musgrove did turn him round about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet , When he did awake then did he espy , lord Barnet at the beds-fee Oh rise up , rise up , thou little Musgrove , and put thy clothing on , It never shall be said in England fair , that I slew a naked man . Here is two Swords , lord Barnet said , Musgrove thy choice now make . The best of them thy self shall have , and I the worst will take : The first blow Musgrove did strike , he wounded lord Barnet soar , The second blow lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his lady by the white hand , all love to rage tonvert , And with his Sword in furious wise , he pierc'd her tender hear A grave , a grave , lord Barnet cry'd , prepare to lay us in , My lady shall lie on the upper side , cause she's the better Skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which griev'd his friends full soar , The death of these three worthy wights , with tears they did deplore : This sad mischief by lust was wrought , then let us call for grace , That we may shun the wicked vice , and fly from since apace . Printed for A. B. W. D. and T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane . 