Chastities Conquest , OR , No Trusting before Marriage . A New Song , You Virgins that your Fame and Honour prize . Learn here by saving both , how to be wise . Secure your Treasure till you have secur'd The Purchaser and then you are insur'd A thing that forehand freeness ne'r procur'd . To the Tune of , Canst thou not weave Bonelace . This may be Printed . RP . CAnst thou not weave Bonelace , yea by Lady that I can , canst thou not lisp with Grace yea as well as any one , Canst thou not Carded and Spin yea by Lady that I can And do the other thing we I'se do what I can Come then , and be my sweet To Bed I'l carry thee No in Geud faith not a bit Unless you marry me : Marriage is not the mode then I'se will make it so , Duce o' the common Road I'l ne'r forsake it so Thou shalt in me possess all Joys that can be had Then give a consenting Kiss , Then wed me first my Lad Let us but gang to the Priest So dear I tender thee . Then Kiss on and do what you list faith I'se not hinder thee We shall soon weary grow change will soon tyre you Ah do not tell me so Since I admire you For when I touch thy Breasts thy charms so fire me Yet needless is a Priest Then come no nigher me , For when you tempt me to bed I'se no sick silly Fool , But if you'l buckle and wed , then kiss your Belly full If as you say you Love make I'se your wedded Mate , And you shall freely have what ever you'd be at Will you not then my Joy without you'r wedded strike No by my troth not I Such loving I'se not like But wedded my Arms shall bless thy passion to the light And with a consenting kiss my Love to his Joys invite . Let's no kind minutes waste I'l led thee to my Bed , Where Loves delights we'l taste and so to morrow be wedded Geud Faith I'se not agree , I'se venture no such thing Troth you'r deceived in me and must begin again Come lay this Bashfulness by your blushes I will hide What harm is it now to try If you'r to morrn my Bride . I'se never yield to that O don't desire me To do the Dee'l knows what Whoo'd then admire me Well thou hast wone my Heart , Thy Virtues fire me I'le wed and never part As you require me Soft murmurs and Sighs shall prove What Joys you render me Oh Kiss then and surfeit one Love Faith i'se not angry be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball near the Bear Tavern in Pyecorner . Chastities Conquest , OR , No Trusting before Marriage . A New Song , You Virgins that your Fame and Honour prize . Learn here by saving both , how to be wise . Secure your Treasure till you have secur'd The Purchaser and then you are insur'd A thing that forehand freeness ne'r procur'd . To the Tune of , Canst thou not weave Bonelace . This may be Printed . RP . CAnst thou not weave Bonelace , yea by Lady that I can , canst thou not lisp with Grace yea as well as any one , Canst thou not Carded and Spin yea by Lady that I can And do the other thing we I'se do what I can Come then , and be my sweet To Bed I'l carry thee No in Geud faith not a bit Unless you marry me : Marriage is not the mode then I'se will make it so , Duce o' the common Road I'l ne'r forsake it so Thou shalt in me possess all Joys that can be had Then give a consenting Kiss , Then wed me first my Lad Let us but gang to the Priest So dear I tender thee . Then Kiss on and do what you list faith I'se not hinder thee We shall soon weary grow change will soon tyre you Ah do not tell me so Since I admire you For when I touch thy Breasts thy charms so fire me Yet needless is a Priest Then come no nigher me , For when you tempt me to bed I'se no sick silly Fool , But if you'l buckle and wed , then kiss your Belly full If as you say you Love make I'se your wedded Mate , And you shall freely have what ever you'd be at Will you not then my Joy without you'r wedded strike No by my troth not I Such loving I'se not like But wedded my Arms shall bless thy passion to the light And with a consenting kiss my Love to his Joys invite . Let's no kind minutes waste I'l led thee to my Bed , Where Loves delights we'l taste and so to morrow be wedded Geud Faith I'se not agree , I'se venture no such thing Troth you'r deceived in me and must begin again Come lay this Bashfulness by your blushes I will hide What harm is it now to try If you'r to morrn my Bride . I'se never yield to that O don't desire me To do the Dee'l knows what Whoo'd then admire me Well thou hast wone my Heart , Thy Virtues fire me I'le wed and never part As you require me Soft murmurs and Sighs shall prove What Joys you render me Oh Kiss then and surfeit one Love Faith i'se not angry be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball near the Bear Tavern in Pyecorner . 