CUPIDS COURTESIE : in the wooing of fair Sabina . To a pleasant new Tune . AS on a day Sabina fell asleep , Into her bower it was my chance to creep , I first spoke soft , I first spoke soft , I first spoke soft , then loud unto my dear , Which fair Sabina herd but would not hear . When I perceiv'd she did but wink and wake , Unto myself more courage did I take , And thought it best , And thought it best , And thought it best , and fittest time to woe , The which Sabina knew but would not know . Then did I lay me by her on the ground , Whereas I first Sabina sleeping found , Then did I touch , Then did I touch , Then did I touch , her pretty foot and heel , The which Sabina felt , but would not feel . When I had first perform'd this trick of love , A maidenblush her eyelids seem'd to move , But yet she slept , But yet she slept , But yet she slept , with wakeful winking eye , But still Sabina lay , but would not lie . Then marks of beauty on her cheeks I spi'd , With fair Vermilion blushes sweetly dy'd , Where Cupids lips , Where Cupids lips , Where Cupids lips , a dainty Kiss might crave , Which fair Sabina had , but would not have . Thus when that I by beauty's kind command , Had felt the sweetest moisture of her hand , With quaking fear , With quaking fear , With quaking fear , I pul'd my hand away , So was Sabina coy , but said not nay . The second part , to the same Tune . Now fearing lest my boldness should offend , God Cupid I desired for my friend , with golden Bow , with golden Bow , with golden Bow , to shoot a shaft of love , The which Sabina prov'd , but could not prove . When I had practis'd every way but one , Unto my dearest dear I made my moan , Sweet grant me love , Sweet grant me love , Sweet grant me love , Oh now me love or never , Which fair Sabina gave , but was not giver . Yet all this while I did my dear no wrong , Though she was dumb , yet had my love a tongue To plead for love , To plead for love , To plead for love , unto my fairest fair , For which Sabina carded , but would not care . For my hearts woe Sabina could not weep , For she presum'd I thought her still asleep , And so I did , And so I did , And so I did , and will do while I live , In that Sabina gave , but would not give . A woman's love which secretly does hide it , Will soon grow fickle if once she be deny'd it , Yet sheel say nay , Yet sheel say nay , Yet sheel say nay , and so I must say too , Thus was Sabina woo'd , but would not woe . With kisses kindly from her I did part , She to my love , and gave to me her heart , which I will keep , which I will keep , which I will keep , tide up in chains of gold , For what Sabina had , she could not hold . Printed for F . Coles , T. Vere , and J. Wright . CUPIDS COURTESIE : in the wooing of fair Sabina . To a pleasant new Tune . AS on a day Sabina fell asleep , Into her bower it was my chance to creep , I first spoke soft , I first spoke soft , I first spoke soft , then loud unto my dear , Which fair Sabina herd but would not hear . When I perceiv'd she did but wink and wake , Unto myself more courage did I take , And thought it best , And thought it best , And thought it best , and fittest time to woe , The which Sabina knew but would not know . Then did I lay me by her on the ground , Whereas I first Sabina sleeping found , Then did I touch , Then did I touch , Then did I touch , her pretty foot and heel , The which Sabina felt , but would not feel . When I had first perform'd this trick of love , A maidenblush her eyelids seem'd to move , But yet she slept , But yet she slept , But yet she slept , with wakeful winking eye , But still Sabina lay , but would not lie . Then marks of beauty on her cheeks I spi'd , With fair Vermilion blushes sweetly dy'd , Where Cupids lips , Where Cupids lips , Where Cupids lips , a dainty Kiss might crave , Which fair Sabina had , but would not have . Thus when that I by beauty's kind command , Had felt the sweetest moisture of her hand , With quaking fear , With quaking fear , With quaking fear , I pul'd my hand away , So was Sabina coy , but said not nay . The second part , to the same Tune . Now fearing lest my boldness should offend , God Cupid I desired for my friend , with golden Bow , with golden Bow , with golden Bow , to shoot a shaft of love , The which Sabina prov'd , but could not prove . When I had practis'd every way but one , Unto my dearest dear I made my moan , Sweet grant me love , Sweet grant me love , Sweet grant me love , Oh now me love or never , Which fair Sabina gave , but was not giver . Yet all this while I did my dear no wrong , Though she was dumb , yet had my love a tongue To plead for love , To plead for love , To plead for love , unto my fairest fair , For which Sabina carded , but would not care . For my hearts woe Sabina could not weep , For she presum'd I thought her still asleep , And so I did , And so I did , And so I did , and will do while I live , In that Sabina gave , but would not give . A woman's love which secretly does hide it , Will soon grow fickle if once she be deny'd it , Yet sheel say nay , Yet sheel say nay , Yet sheel say nay , and so I must say too , Thus was Sabina woo'd , but would not woe . With kisses kindly from her I did part , She to my love , and gave to me her heart , which I will keep , which I will keep , which I will keep , tide up in chains of gold , For what Sabina had , she could not hold . Printed for F . Coles , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 