The Courteous CARMAN , And the Amorous Maid . OR , The Carman's Whistle . What here is Pen'd in this same pleasant Story , Does only tend unto the Carmans Glory ; Who did relieve a Maiden in distress , And brought her joy in midst of heaviness : He was Courageous , and of mettle good , As by this Story may be understood . To a New Tune , called , The Carmans Whistle ; or , Lord Willoughby's March , etc AS I abroad was walking by the breaking of the day , Into a pleasant Meadow , a youngman took his way , And looking round about him , to mark what he could see , At length he spy'd a fair maid under a Myrtle Tree . So comely was her countenance , and smiling was her cheer , As though the Goddess Venus , her self she had been there , And many a smirking smile she gave , among the Leaves so green , Although she was perceived , she thought she was not seen . At length she chang'd her countenance , and sung a mournful song , Lamenting her misfortune , she stayed a Maid so long : There's many that be younger , that long time have been wed , Which makes me think that I shall die and keep my Maidenhead . Sure youngmen are hard hearted , and know not what they do , Or else they want for Compliments fair Maidens for to woe : Why should young Virgins pine away and loose their chiefest prime , And all for want of Sweethearts , to cheer us up in time . THe youngman herd her Ditty and could no longer stay , But straight unto this Damosel with speed he did away : He nimbly stepped unto her which made her for to start , But when he once embraced her , he joy'd her very heart . Sweet heart he said unto her why do you so complain , If you'l be rul'd by me i'le play you such a strain , As uses for to give content when as true Lovers meets , It is much like to that they call the shaking of the sheets . Strike up quoth she , and spare not I prithee use thy skill , For why I greatly care not If I thy mind fulfil , The Carman then most nimbly unto this sport did settle , And pleased her most bravely for he was full of mettle . When he had played unto her one merry note or two , Then she was so rejoiced she knew not what to do : Oh God a mercy Carman , thou art a lively Lad ; Thou hast as rare a Whistle as ever Carman had : How if my Mother chide me for staying here so long , What if she does I care not for this shall be my song : Pray mother be contented break not my heart in twain ; Although I have been ill a while I shall be well again : And thus this loving couple did oftentimes embrace , And lovingly did prattle all in that flowery place ; But now the time of parting began for to draw near , Whereas this Noble Carman must leave his only dear , He took his leave most kindly and thus to her did say , My dearest I will meet thee next time I come this way : Away this bonny Carman went a whistling of his Note , And there he left this fair Maid a brushing of her Coat . Now fare thee well brave Carman I wish thee well to fare , For thou didst use me kindly as I can well declare : Let other Maids say what they will the truth of all is so , The bonny Carmans Whistle shall for my money go . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . The Courteous CARMAN , And the Amorous Maid . OR , The Carman's Whistle . What here is Pen'd in this same pleasant Story , Does only tend unto the Carmans Glory ; Who did relieve a Maiden in distress , And brought her joy in midst of heaviness : He was Courageous , and of mettle good , As by this Story may be understood . To a New Tune , called , The Carmans Whistle ; or , Lord Willoughby's March , etc AS I abroad was walking by the breaking of the day , Into a pleasant Meadow , a youngman took his way , And looking round about him , to mark what he could see , At length he spy'd a fair maid under a Myrtle Tree . So comely was her countenance , and smiling was her cheer , As though the Goddess Venus , her self she had been there , And many a smirking smile she gave , among the Leaves so green , Although she was perceived , she thought she was not seen . At length she chang'd her countenance , and sung a mournful song , Lamenting her misfortune , she stayed a Maid so long : There's many that be younger , that long time have been wed , Which makes me think that I shall die and keep my Maidenhead . Sure youngmen are hard hearted , and know not what they do , Or else they want for Compliments fair Maidens for to woe : Why should young Virgins pine away and loose their chiefest prime , And all for want of Sweethearts , to cheer us up in time . THe youngman herd her Ditty and could no longer stay , But straight unto this Damosel with speed he did away : He nimbly stepped unto her which made her for to start , But when he once embraced her , he joy'd her very heart . Sweet heart he said unto her why do you so complain , If you'l be rul'd by me i'le play you such a strain , As uses for to give content when as true Lovers meets , It is much like to that they call the shaking of the sheets . Strike up quoth she , and spare not I prithee use thy skill , For why I greatly care not If I thy mind fulfil , The Carman then most nimbly unto this sport did settle , And pleased her most bravely for he was full of mettle . When he had played unto her one merry note or two , Then she was so rejoiced she knew not what to do : Oh God a mercy Carman , thou art a lively Lad ; Thou hast as rare a Whistle as ever Carman had : How if my Mother chide me for staying here so long , What if she does I care not for this shall be my song : Pray mother be contented break not my heart in twain ; Although I have been ill a while I shall be well again : And thus this loving couple did oftentimes embrace , And lovingly did prattle all in that flowery place ; But now the time of parting began for to draw near , Whereas this Noble Carman must leave his only dear , He took his leave most kindly and thus to her did say , My dearest I will meet thee next time I come this way : Away this bonny Carman went a whistling of his Note , And there he left this fair Maid a brushing of her Coat . Now fare thee well brave Carman I wish thee well to fare , For thou didst use me kindly as I can well declare : Let other Maids say what they will the truth of all is so , The bonny Carmans Whistle shall for my money go . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . 