The Courteous Carman , AND THE Amorous MAID : OR , The Carman's Whistle . What here is penn'd in this same pleasant Story , Does only tend unto the CARMAN's Glory , Who did relieve a Maiden in Distress , And brought her Joy in midst of Heaviness ; He was Courageous , and of Mettle good , As by this Story may be understood . To the Tune of , The Carman's Whistle : or , Lord Willoughby's March , etc AS I abroad was walking by the breaking of the day , Into a pleasant meadow a young Man took his way , And looking round about him , to mark what he could see , At length he 'spy'd a fair Maid under a myrtle-tree : So comely was her countenance , and smiling was her cheer , As though the Goddess Venus herself she had been there , And many a smirking smile she gave , among the leaves so green , Although she was perceived , she thought she was not seen . At length she chang'd her countenance , and sung a mournful song , Lamenting her misfortune , she stayed a Maid so long : There's many that be younger , that long time have been wed , Which makes me think that I shall die , and keep my maidenhead . Sure young Men are hard hearted , and know not what they do , Or else they want for compliments fair Maidens for to woe : Why should young Virgins pine away , and loose their chiefest prime , And all for want of sweethearts , to cheer us up in time ? The young Man herd her ditty , and could no longer stay , But straight unto this Damsel with speed he did away ; He nimbly stepped unto her , which made her for to start , But when he once embrac'd her , he joy'd her very hear Sweetheart , he said unto her , why do you so complain ? If you'll be rul'd by me I'll play you such a strain , As uses for to give content , when as true Lovers meets , It is much like to that they call the shaking of the sheets . Strike up , quoth she , and spare not , I prithee use thy skill , For why I greatly care not if I thy mind fulfil . The Carman then most nimbly unto this sport did settle , And pleased her most bravely , for he was full of mettle . When he had played unto her one merry note or two , Then was she so rejoiced she knew not what to do : Oh God a mercy Carman , thou art a lively Lad ; Thou hast as rare a whistle as ever Carman had . Now if my Mother chide me , for staying here so long ; What if she does , I care not , for this shall be my song : Pray Mother be contented , break not my heart in twain , Although I have been ill a while I shall be well again . And thus this loving Couple did oftentimes embrace , And lovingly did prattle all in that flowery place : But now the time of parting began for to draw near , Whereas this jolly Carman must leave his only Dear . He took his leave most kindly , and thus to her did say , My Dearest , I will meet thee next time I come this way . Away this bony Carman went a whistling of his note , And there he left this fair Maid a brushing of her coat . Now fare thee well , brave Carman , I wish the well to fare , For thou didst use me kindly as I can well declare : Let other Maids say what they will , the truth of all is so , The bonny Carman's whistle shall for my money go . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by C. Bates in Pie-corner . The Courteous Carman , AND THE Amorous MAID : OR , The Carman's Whistle . What here is penn'd in this same pleasant Story , Does only tend unto the CARMAN's Glory , Who did relieve a Maiden in Distress , And brought her Joy in midst of Heaviness ; He was Courageous , and of Mettle good , As by this Story may be understood . To the Tune of , The Carman's Whistle : or , Lord Willoughby's March , etc AS I abroad was walking by the breaking of the day , Into a pleasant meadow a young Man took his way , And looking round about him , to mark what he could see , At length he 'spy'd a fair Maid under a myrtle-tree : So comely was her countenance , and smiling was her cheer , As though the Goddess Venus herself she had been there , And many a smirking smile she gave , among the leaves so green , Although she was perceived , she thought she was not seen . At length she chang'd her countenance , and sung a mournful song , Lamenting her misfortune , she stayed a Maid so long : There's many that be younger , that long time have been wed , Which makes me think that I shall die , and keep my maidenhead . Sure young Men are hard hearted , and know not what they do , Or else they want for compliments fair Maidens for to woe : Why should young Virgins pine away , and loose their chiefest prime , And all for want of sweethearts , to cheer us up in time ? The young Man herd her ditty , and could no longer stay , But straight unto this Damsel with speed he did away ; He nimbly stepped unto her , which made her for to start , But when he once embrac'd her , he joy'd her very hear Sweetheart , he said unto her , why do you so complain ? If you'll be rul'd by me I'll play you such a strain , As uses for to give content , when as true Lovers meets , It is much like to that they call the shaking of the sheets . Strike up , quoth she , and spare not , I prithee use thy skill , For why I greatly care not if I thy mind fulfil . The Carman then most nimbly unto this sport did settle , And pleased her most bravely , for he was full of mettle . When he had played unto her one merry note or two , Then was she so rejoiced she knew not what to do : Oh God a mercy Carman , thou art a lively Lad ; Thou hast as rare a whistle as ever Carman had . Now if my Mother chide me , for staying here so long ; What if she does , I care not , for this shall be my song : Pray Mother be contented , break not my heart in twain , Although I have been ill a while I shall be well again . And thus this loving Couple did oftentimes embrace , And lovingly did prattle all in that flowery place : But now the time of parting began for to draw near , Whereas this jolly Carman must leave his only Dear . He took his leave most kindly , and thus to her did say , My Dearest , I will meet thee next time I come this way . Away this bony Carman went a whistling of his note , And there he left this fair Maid a brushing of her coat . Now fare thee well , brave Carman , I wish the well to fare , For thou didst use me kindly as I can well declare : Let other Maids say what they will , the truth of all is so , The bonny Carman's whistle shall for my money go . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by C. Bates in Pie-corner . 