The FRYER well Fitted ; OR , A pretty Jest that once befell , How a Maid put a Fryer to cool in the Well . To a Merry Tune . AS I lay musing all alone , fa , la , la , la , la , A pretty jest I thought upon , fa , la , la , la , la , Then listen a while , and I will you tell , Of a Fryer that lov'd a bonny Lass well fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . He came to the Maid when she went to bed fa , la , etc Desiring to have her Maidenhead , fa , la , etc But she denied his desire , And told him , that she fear'd Hell Fire ; fa , la , etc Tush ( quod the Fryer ) thou needest not doubt fa , la , etc If thou wertenberg in hell I could sing thee out fa , la , etc Then ( quod the maid ) thou shalt have thy request , The Fryer was glad as a Fox in his nest fa , la , etc But one thing ( quoth she ) I do desire , fa , la , etc Before you have what you require , fa , la , etc Before that you shall do the thing , And Angel of money thou shalt me bring , fa , la , etc Tush ( quoth the Fryer ) we shall agree , fa , la , etc No money shall part my Love and me ; fa , la , etc Before that I will see thee lack , I'le pawn my gray Gown from my back fa , la , etc The Maid bethought her of a wife , fa , la , etc Now she the Fryer might beguile , fa , la , etc While she was gone the truth to tell , She hung a Cloth before the Well ; fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang - tree-down-dilly . THe Fryer came as his covenant was fa , la , etc With money to his bonny Lass , fa , la , etc Good morrow fair Maid , good morrow , quod he Here is the money I promised thee ; fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . She thanked the man , & she took his money fa , la , etc Now let us go too't , ( quod he ) sweet honey fa , la , etc O stay ( quod she ) some respite make , My Father comes he will me take ; fa , la . etc Alas ( quod the Fryer ) where shall I run , fa , la , etc To hide me till he be gone , fa , la , etc Behind the Cloth run thou ( quod she ) And there my Father cannot thee see , fa , la , etc Behind the Cloth the Fryer crept , fa , la , etc And into the Well on a sudden he leapt , fa , la , etc Alas ( quoth he ) I am in the Well , No mat ( quod she ) if thou wertenberg in Hell ; fa , la , etc Thou say'st thou couldst sing me out of Hell fa , la , etc Now prithee sing thy self out of the well , fa , la , etc The Fryer sung on with a pitiful found , O help me out , or I shall be drown'd ; fa , la , etc I trow ( quoth she ) your courage is cool'd fa , la , etc ( Quoth the Fryer ) I never was so fool'd , fa , la , etc I never was served so before , then take heed ( quod she ) thou com'st there no more , fa , la , etc ( Quoth he ) for sweet Saint Francis sake fa , la , etc On his Disciple some pity take , fa , la , etc ( Quoth she ) Saint Francis never taught His Scholars to tempt young Maids to nought ; fa , la , etc The Fryer did entreat her still , fa , la , etc That she would help him out of the well , fa , la , etc She herd him make such piteous moan She help'd him out , and bid him be gone fa , la , etc ( Quoth he ) shall I have my money again fa , la , etc Which from me thou hast beforehand taken fa , la , etc good sir ( said she ) there's no such matter , I'le make you pay for fouling my water , fa , la , etc The Fryer went all along the Street , fa , la , etc Dropping wet , like a new-wash'd Sheep fa , la , etc Both old and young commended the Maid That such a witty prank had played , fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The FRYER well Fitted ; OR , A pretty Jest that once befell , How a Maid put a Fryer to cool in the Well . To a Merry Tune . AS I lay musing all alone , fa , la , la , la , la , A pretty jest I thought upon , fa , la , la , la , la , Then listen a while , and I will you tell , Of a Fryer that lov'd a bonny Lass well fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . He came to the Maid when she went to bed fa , la , etc Desiring to have her Maidenhead , fa , la , etc But she denied his desire , And told him , that she fear'd Hell Fire ; fa , la , etc Tush ( quod the Fryer ) thou needest not doubt fa , la , etc If thou wertenberg in hell I could sing thee out fa , la , etc Then ( quod the maid ) thou shalt have thy request , The Fryer was glad as a Fox in his nest fa , la , etc But one thing ( quoth she ) I do desire , fa , la , etc Before you have what you require , fa , la , etc Before that you shall do the thing , And Angel of money thou shalt me bring , fa , la , etc Tush ( quoth the Fryer ) we shall agree , fa , la , etc No money shall part my Love and me ; fa , la , etc Before that I will see thee lack , I'le pawn my gray Gown from my back fa , la , etc The Maid bethought her of a wife , fa , la , etc Now she the Fryer might beguile , fa , la , etc While she was gone the truth to tell , She hung a Cloth before the Well ; fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang - tree-down-dilly . THe Fryer came as his covenant was fa , la , etc With money to his bonny Lass , fa , la , etc Good morrow fair Maid , good morrow , quod he Here is the money I promised thee ; fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . She thanked the man , & she took his money fa , la , etc Now let us go too't , ( quod he ) sweet honey fa , la , etc O stay ( quod she ) some respite make , My Father comes he will me take ; fa , la . etc Alas ( quod the Fryer ) where shall I run , fa , la , etc To hide me till he be gone , fa , la , etc Behind the Cloth run thou ( quod she ) And there my Father cannot thee see , fa , la , etc Behind the Cloth the Fryer crept , fa , la , etc And into the Well on a sudden he leapt , fa , la , etc Alas ( quoth he ) I am in the Well , No mat ( quod she ) if thou wertenberg in Hell ; fa , la , etc Thou say'st thou couldst sing me out of Hell fa , la , etc Now prithee sing thy self out of the well , fa , la , etc The Fryer sung on with a pitiful found , O help me out , or I shall be drown'd ; fa , la , etc I trow ( quoth she ) your courage is cool'd fa , la , etc ( Quoth the Fryer ) I never was so fool'd , fa , la , etc I never was served so before , then take heed ( quod she ) thou com'st there no more , fa , la , etc ( Quoth he ) for sweet Saint Francis sake fa , la , etc On his Disciple some pity take , fa , la , etc ( Quoth she ) Saint Francis never taught His Scholars to tempt young Maids to nought ; fa , la , etc The Fryer did entreat her still , fa , la , etc That she would help him out of the well , fa , la , etc She herd him make such piteous moan She help'd him out , and bid him be gone fa , la , etc ( Quoth he ) shall I have my money again fa , la , etc Which from me thou hast beforehand taken fa , la , etc good sir ( said she ) there's no such matter , I'le make you pay for fouling my water , fa , la , etc The Fryer went all along the Street , fa , la , etc Dropping wet , like a new-wash'd Sheep fa , la , etc Both old and young commended the Maid That such a witty prank had played , fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 