St. BERNARD'S Vision : OR , A brief Discourse ( Dialogue wise ) between the Soul and Body of a Damned Man , newly deceased , laying the faults one upon the other : With a Speech of the Devils in Hell . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my bed one night , A fearful vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw a soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs , the soul aloud did cry , Upon the body in the Coffin by : And thus the soul to it did make her moan , With grievous sobs , and many a bitter groan . The soul speaks . O sinful flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The Sun is set which yesterday did shine . Where is thy train that did attend on thee , Where is thy mirth where is thy jollity ? where are thy sumptuous buildings & thy treasure ? Thy pleasant walks wherein thou took [ ' ] st pleasure . Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin , in a shrine art urn'd : For thy rich clothes thou hast a winding-sheet , thy high-built roof now with thy mouth does meet But I poor soul was fram [ ' ] worser a noble creature , In likeness to my God , of 'heavenly feature , But by thy since while we and earth abided , I am made fouler then a loathsome Toad . O wretched flesh with me that art' forlorn , That well may wish thou never hadst been born : Thou wouldst never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must forever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain , But thou and I we must descend to hell , Where we in frying flames must ever dwell . It was thy pride , deceit , and luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee , thy wife , thy children , friends whom thou didst trust Do loath thy carcase lying in the dust . The book of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure ; Thou that within the bed of earth are laid , Arise , and answer to the words I said . The Body speaks . I know thee well my soul which from me fled , Which left my body senseless , cold , and dead , Cease thou to say the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee . Thou say'st that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away : But if the flesh the spirits power can move , The fault is thine as I will plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair , And of celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , fram'd of earth and clay , You to command and I for to obey . It in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do these things were ill : The bodies works are from the soul divided , And by the soul the body should be guided . The body of itself no ill hath known , If I did what thou did'st , the guilts thine own , For without thee , the body rests dead , The soul commands , it rests upon thy head . So to conclude , thy guilt exceeds mine , Oh how the worms do tear me in my shrine ; And therefore fare thee well poor sinful soul , Thy trespasses pass mine , though they are foul . The Soul speaks . MOst wretched flesh which in the time of life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife : Though of thy substance thou did speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted and would have thy will : When I would thee , Oh body , have controul'd , Straight the world's vanities did me withhold . So thou of me didst gain the upper hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band : That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd in hell , when glorious saints in heaven are crown'd But flattering fancy did thy mind so please , Thou never thought'st to die till death did cease : This was thy fault , and cursed was our fate , Which we repent , but now , alas too late . The body speaks . O now I weep , being scourg'd with mine own rod , We both stand guilty before the face of God : Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden , soul , on thee does lie . No wit so mean , but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows : There is most due , and ought repaid be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yieldest unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree : But o , I knew not at the latter hour , But thou and I shall find a death most sure . I greatly fear and everlasting fire , Yet one thing more I do of thee desire : Hast thou been yet among the fiends of Hell , Is no hope's left that we with Christ may dwell . The Soul Speaks . False flesh remember Dives was denay'd , When for one drop of water he so pray'd : Thy question , senseless body , wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season , Vile body go , and rot in bed of clay , Until the great and general judgement day : Then shalt thou rise , and be with me condemn'd , To Hells hight lake forever without end . So fare thee well I will no longer stay , Hark how the fiends of Hell call me away : The loss of heavenly joys torments me , More then all tortures that in Hell can be . The Devil speaks . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song : Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And moulted Led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse then is the crawling toad : Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide , When thou in flaming Sulphre shalt be fry'd . Thou art a Soldier of our Camp enroul'd . Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold : The pains prepar'd for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome , to the pit of Hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning soul did weep most soar , And then the fiends with joy did laugh and roar : those devils did seem more black then pitch or night Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steeled forks each in their hands did bear Tusked their teeth line crooked mattocks were Fire and brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils Snakes crawl'd all about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the tusks of a Boar : Those hellish fiends fast bound this wretched soul , And drag'd him in , who grievously did howl . Then straight methought appeared in my sighed , A beauteous youngman clothed all in white : His face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the Rainbow , and his hair like gold : With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail , quoth he , Arise and write what here thou now dost see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , To write those lines the youngman did command And so abroad into the world it sent , That each good Christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our souls and bodies we thee pray : God grant we may so run this mortal raze , That we in heaven may have a restingplace . Preserve the King , the Queen , and Progeny , The Clergy , Counsel , and Nobility , Preserve our soul and bodies I thee pray Amen , with me , let all good Christians say . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J.M. and A.M. St. BERNARD'S Vision : OR , A brief Discourse ( Dialogue wise ) between the Soul and Body of a Damned Man , newly deceased , laying the faults one upon the other : With a Speech of the Devils in Hell . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my bed one night , A fearful vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw a soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs , the soul aloud did cry , Upon the body in the Coffin by : And thus the soul to it did make her moan , With grievous sobs , and many a bitter groan . The soul speaks . O sinful flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The Sun is set which yesterday did shine . Where is thy train that did attend on thee , Where is thy mirth where is thy jollity ? where are thy sumptuous buildings & thy treasure ? Thy pleasant walks wherein thou took [ ' ] st pleasure . Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin , in a shrine art urn'd : For thy rich clothes thou hast a winding-sheet , thy high-built roof now with thy mouth does meet But I poor soul was fram [ ' ] worser a noble creature , In likeness to my God , of 'heavenly feature , But by thy since while we and earth abided , I am made fouler then a loathsome Toad . O wretched flesh with me that art' forlorn , That well may wish thou never hadst been born : Thou wouldst never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must forever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain , But thou and I we must descend to hell , Where we in frying flames must ever dwell . It was thy pride , deceit , and luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee , thy wife , thy children , friends whom thou didst trust Do loath thy carcase lying in the dust . The book of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure ; Thou that within the bed of earth are laid , Arise , and answer to the words I said . The Body speaks . I know thee well my soul which from me fled , Which left my body senseless , cold , and dead , Cease thou to say the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee . Thou say'st that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away : But if the flesh the spirits power can move , The fault is thine as I will plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair , And of celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , fram'd of earth and clay , You to command and I for to obey . It in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do these things were ill : The bodies works are from the soul divided , And by the soul the body should be guided . The body of itself no ill hath known , If I did what thou did'st , the guilts thine own , For without thee , the body rests dead , The soul commands , it rests upon thy head . So to conclude , thy guilt exceeds mine , Oh how the worms do tear me in my shrine ; And therefore fare thee well poor sinful soul , Thy trespasses pass mine , though they are foul . The Soul speaks . MOst wretched flesh which in the time of life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife : Though of thy substance thou did speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted and would have thy will : When I would thee , Oh body , have controul'd , Straight the world's vanities did me withhold . So thou of me didst gain the upper hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band : That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd in hell , when glorious saints in heaven are crown'd But flattering fancy did thy mind so please , Thou never thought'st to die till death did cease : This was thy fault , and cursed was our fate , Which we repent , but now , alas too late . The body speaks . O now I weep , being scourg'd with mine own rod , We both stand guilty before the face of God : Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden , soul , on thee does lie . No wit so mean , but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows : There is most due , and ought repaid be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yieldest unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree : But o , I knew not at the latter hour , But thou and I shall find a death most sure . I greatly fear and everlasting fire , Yet one thing more I do of thee desire : Hast thou been yet among the fiends of Hell , Is no hope's left that we with Christ may dwell . The Soul Speaks . False flesh remember Dives was denay'd , When for one drop of water he so pray'd : Thy question , senseless body , wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season , Vile body go , and rot in bed of clay , Until the great and general judgement day : Then shalt thou rise , and be with me condemn'd , To Hells hight lake forever without end . So fare thee well I will no longer stay , Hark how the fiends of Hell call me away : The loss of heavenly joys torments me , More then all tortures that in Hell can be . The Devil speaks . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song : Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And moulted Led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse then is the crawling toad : Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide , When thou in flaming Sulphre shalt be fry'd . Thou art a Soldier of our Camp enroul'd . Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold : The pains prepar'd for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome , to the pit of Hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning soul did weep most soar , And then the fiends with joy did laugh and roar : those devils did seem more black then pitch or night Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steeled forks each in their hands did bear Tusked their teeth line crooked mattocks were Fire and brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils Snakes crawl'd all about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the tusks of a Boar : Those hellish fiends fast bound this wretched soul , And drag'd him in , who grievously did howl . Then straight methought appeared in my sighed , A beauteous youngman clothed all in white : His face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the Rainbow , and his hair like gold : With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail , quoth he , Arise and write what here thou now dost see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , To write those lines the youngman did command And so abroad into the world it sent , That each good Christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our souls and bodies we thee pray : God grant we may so run this mortal raze , That we in heaven may have a restingplace . Preserve the King , the Queen , and Progeny , The Clergy , Counsel , and Nobility , Preserve our soul and bodies I thee pray Amen , with me , let all good Christians say . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J.M. and A.M. 