A General SUMMONS for those belonging to the Hen-Peck'd FRIGATE , To appear at Cuckolds-Point , on the 18th . of this Instant October . Licensed according to Order . YOur Presence is required , and are hereby lawfully Summoned ( as belonging to the Hen-Peck'd-Frigate ) to appear at Cuckolds-Point ( being the ancient Place of our Rendezvous ) on the 18th . of this Instant October , precisely by Seven of the Clock in the Morning , well fitted with a Basket , Pit-Axe and Shovel , there to give your Attendance , till the List of your Brothers , the Knights of the Forked Order , is called over , and then at the Word of Command , to march in good Order to the Gravel - Pits , there to Dig Sand and Gravel for Repairing the Foot-Ways , that your Wives with their Friends may have pleasure and delight in walking to Horn-Fair , whereof you are not to fail , under the Penalty of a Garret-Correction , and the Forfeiture of all your Goods and Chattels , except your Master's Jointure . Thomas Cann't-Be-Quiet Beadle . A New SONG on Horn-Fair . Tune is Ladies of LONDON . HEre is a Summons for all honest Men , belonging to the Hen-peck'd Frigate ; And I will tell you the place where and when , both Gravel and Sand for to dig it ; To mend the ways , 'tis no idle Tale , remember your Foreheads adorning , At Cuckolds-Point you must meet without fail , by seven a Clock in the morning . Shovels and Pit-Axes you must provide , it is but in vain for to cavil , You must bring with you a Basket beside , in order to carry the Gravel , That your sweet Wives may walk to the Fair , with Gallant that dotes on their Beauty , See that you do it with diligent care , consider it is but your Duty . Tailors with Turners , and Cobblers too , also Barbers , Pipers , and Scrapers ; Nay , and beside there's a notable Crew , a thousand or two of Ale-Drapers : All must appear and patiently wait , while they have receiv'd their Direction , And if our Laws you shall here violate , beware of a Garret-Correction . But if you do it with perfect delight , that Woman that finds you regard her , She to requite you will sure dub you Knight , and one of the old Forked Order ; For there was some last Year were made so , and one was kind Robin my Neighbour ; This may encourage you freely to go , as knowing you shan't loose your labour . Doing of this you may led a sweet Life , as long as you flourish together ; Can any Man be too kind to his Wife , I pray you now do but consider ? Therefore I pray be sure to attend , and be not of labour too sparing , When they return you will find in the end , they'll bring you a HORN for a Faring . Printed for J. Deacon . A General SUMMONS for those belonging to the Hen-Peck'd FRIGATE , To appear at Cuckolds-Point , on the 18th . of this Instant October . Licensed according to Order . YOur Presence is required , and are hereby lawfully Summoned ( as belonging to the Hen-Peck'd-Frigate ) to appear at Cuckolds-Point ( being the ancient Place of our Rendezvous ) on the 18th . of this Instant October , precisely by Seven of the Clock in the Morning , well fitted with a Basket , Pit-Axe and Shovel , there to give your Attendance , till the List of your Brothers , the Knights of the Forked Order , is called over , and then at the Word of Command , to march in good Order to the Gravel - Pits , there to Dig Sand and Gravel for Repairing the Foot-Ways , that your Wives with their Friends may have pleasure and delight in walking to Horn-Fair , whereof you are not to fail , under the Penalty of a Garret-Correction , and the Forfeiture of all your Goods and Chattels , except your Master's Jointure . Thomas Cann't-Be-Quiet Beadle . A New SONG on Horn-Fair . Tune is Ladies of LONDON . HEre is a Summons for all honest Men , belonging to the Hen-peck'd Frigate ; And I will tell you the place where and when , both Gravel and Sand for to dig it ; To mend the ways , 'tis no idle Tale , remember your Foreheads adorning , At Cuckolds-Point you must meet without fail , by seven a Clock in the morning . Shovels and Pit-Axes you must provide , it is but in vain for to cavil , You must bring with you a Basket beside , in order to carry the Gravel , That your sweet Wives may walk to the Fair , with Gallant that dotes on their Beauty , See that you do it with diligent care , consider it is but your Duty . Tailors with Turners , and Cobblers too , also Barbers , Pipers , and Scrapers ; Nay , and beside there's a notable Crew , a thousand or two of Ale-Drapers : All must appear and patiently wait , while they have receiv'd their Direction , And if our Laws you shall here violate , beware of a Garret-Correction . But if you do it with perfect delight , that Woman that finds you regard her , She to requite you will sure dub you Knight , and one of the old Forked Order ; For there was some last Year were made so , and one was kind Robin my Neighbour ; This may encourage you freely to go , as knowing you shan't loose your labour . Doing of this you may led a sweet Life , as long as you flourish together ; Can any Man be too kind to his Wife , I pray you now do but consider ? Therefore I pray be sure to attend , and be not of labour too sparing , When they return you will find in the end , they'll bring you a HORN for a Faring . Printed for J. Deacon . A General SUMMONS for those belonging to the Hen-Peck'd FRIGATE , To appear at Cuckolds-Point , on the 18th . of this Instant October . Licensed according to Order . YOur Presence is required , and are hereby lawfully Summoned ( as belonging to the Hen-Peck'd-Frigate ) to appear at Cuckolds-Point ( being the ancient Place of our Rendezvous ) on the 18th . of this Instant October , precisely by Seven of the Clock in the Morning , well fitted with a Basket , Pit-Axe and Shovel , there to give your Attendance , till the List of your Brothers , the Knights of the Forked Order , is called over , and then at the Word of Command , to march in good Order to the Gravel - Pits , there to Dig Sand and Gravel for Repairing the Foot-Ways , that your Wives with their Friends may have pleasure and delight in walking to Horn-Fair , whereof you are not to fail , under the Penalty of a Garret-Correction , and the Forfeiture of all your Goods and Chattels , except your Master's Jointure . Thomas Cann't-Be-Quiet Beadle . A New SONG on Horn-Fair . Tune is Ladies of LONDON . HEre is a Summons for all honest Men , belonging to the Hen-peck'd Frigate ; And I will tell you the place where and when , both Gravel and Sand for to dig it ; To mend the ways , 'tis no idle Tale , remember your Foreheads adorning , At Cuckolds-Point you must meet without fail , by seven a Clock in the morning . Shovels and Pit-Axes you must provide , it is but in vain for to cavil , You must bring with you a Basket beside , in order to carry the Gravel , That your sweet Wives may walk to the Fair , with Gallant that dotes on their Beauty , See that you do it with diligent care , consider it is but your Duty . Tailors with Turners , and Cobblers too , also Barbers , Pipers , and Scrapers ; Nay , and beside there's a notable Crew , a thousand or two of Ale-Drapers : All must appear and patiently wait , while they have receiv'd their Direction , And if our Laws you shall here violate , beware of a Garret-Correction . But if you do it with perfect delight , that Woman that finds you regard her , She to requite you will sure dub you Knight , and one of the old Forked Order ; For there was some last Year were made so , and one was kind Robin my Neighbour ; This may encourage you freely to go , as knowing you shan't loose your labour . Doing of this you may led a sweet Life , as long as you flourish together ; Can any Man be too kind to his Wife , I pray you now do but consider ? Therefore I pray be sure to attend , and be not of labour too sparing , When they return you will find in the end , they'll bring you a HORN for a Faring . Printed for J. Deacon . A General SUMMONS for those belonging to the Hen-Peck'd FRIGATE , To appear at Cuckolds-Point , on the 18th . of this Instant October . Licensed according to Order . YOur Presence is required , and are hereby lawfully Summoned ( as belonging to the Hen-Peck'd-Frigate ) to appear at Cuckolds-Point ( being the ancient Place of our Rendezvous ) on the 18th . of this Instant October , precisely by Seven of the Clock in the Morning , well fitted with a Basket , Pit-Axe and Shovel , there to give your Attendance , till the List of your Brothers , the Knights of the Forked Order , is called over , and then at the Word of Command , to march in good Order to the Gravel - Pits , there to Dig Sand and Gravel for Repairing the Foot-Ways , that your Wives with their Friends may have pleasure and delight in walking to Horn-Fair , whereof you are not to fail , under the Penalty of a Garret-Correction , and the Forfeiture of all your Goods and Chattels , except your Master's Jointure . Thomas Cann't-Be-Quiet Beadle . A New SONG on Horn-Fair . Tune is Ladies of LONDON . HEre is a Summons for all honest Men , belonging to the Hen-peck'd Frigate ; And I will tell you the place where and when , both Gravel and Sand for to dig it ; To mend the ways , 'tis no idle Tale , remember your Foreheads adorning , At Cuckolds-Point you must meet without fail , by seven a Clock in the morning . Shovels and Pit-Axes you must provide , it is but in vain for to cavil , You must bring with you a Basket beside , in order to carry the Gravel , That your sweet Wives may walk to the Fair , with Gallant that dotes on their Beauty , See that you do it with diligent care , consider it is but your Duty . Tailors with Turners , and Cobblers too , also Barbers , Pipers , and Scrapers ; Nay , and beside there's a notable Crew , a thousand or two of Ale-Drapers : All must appear and patiently wait , while they have receiv'd their Direction , And if our Laws you shall here violate , beware of a Garret-Correction . But if you do it with perfect delight , that Woman that finds you regard her , She to requite you will sure dub you Knight , and one of the old Forked Order ; For there was some last Year were made so , and one was kind Robin my Neighbour ; This may encourage you freely to go , as knowing you shan't loose your labour . Doing of this you may led a sweet Life , as long as you flourish together ; Can any Man be too kind to his Wife , I pray you now do but consider ? Therefore I pray be sure to attend , and be not of labour too sparing , When they return you will find in the end , they'll bring you a HORN for a Faring . Printed for J. Deacon . 