THE London Jilts lamentation OR , A Hue-and-Cry after a fine Lac'd SMOCK She now in Threadbare Garment goes , and does to Ruin run ; For since she lost her Smock and Cloth [ s ] she's utterly Undone . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . This may be Printed , R.P. HEre is wondered strange News , I happen'd to discover , 'Tis of one who daily us'd to play the wanton Lover : She's neither Widow , Wife , nor Maid , but yet a most comely Creature , And in her Garb most richly Array'd , few Ladies are more Completer . With Rich Jewels , Chains and Rings , and also Silks and Laces , And with other costly things , all god by lewd Embraces : As to the Strand she did advance , a Cully did overtake her , By whom she lit of a sad Mischance , the which was enough to break her . First he took her by the hand , this seemed to provoke her , But he'd not disputing stand , but did both kiss and stroke her : Saying , with thee this night i'le lie , sure it can be no great Evil : But her reply was , Pish , nay fie , I pray you kind Sir be Civil . Straight he show'd her Gold good store , and vow'd he would not harm her , She could not deny no more , the Guinnies did so charm her : Thus presently they both agreed , without any longer dodging , And walked near Charing-Cross with speed , to hire a private Lodging . There they passed for Man and Wife , the People did believe them , This did please her to the life , to think how they deceiv'd them : They to the Chamber then repair , to quench Loves flaming fire , Said he , my sweet and Charming fair , one thing I must needs desire . Said he , one Oath I made alone , and loath I am to break it , That was , ne'r to lie with one , but what shall be stark Naked : Said she , Love , your demand's but small , it being warm Summer weather , So straight she stripped off Smock and all , and thus did big both together . Soon after the Day did break , then in the Morning early , This young Jilt he did forsake , and left her sleeping fairly ; And straight he packed up all her Cl [ oaths ] so much as her fine Lac'd Smick [ ? ] And down the Stairs in haste he g [ oes ] O was he not Monstrous Wicked When she wak'd and found him gone [ e ] she straightways rapt and thund [ ered ] And did bitterly take on , to see how she was plunder'd Of Smock and all her rich Array , she cou'd not tell how to take it , For he had carry'd all away , and left her in Bed stark Naked . And old Gown they had in store , to hide her shame , they gave her Then they turn'd her out of door , and finely did beslave her ; So that she daily does repine , and is with sad sorrow laden , For since she has lost her Feathers poor heart ! she has pitiful Tre [ assures ] Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newg [ ate . ] THE London Jilts lamentation OR , A Hue-and-Cry after a fine Lac'd SMOCK She now in Threadbare Garment goes , and does to Ruin run ; For since she lost her Smock and Cloth [ s ] she's utterly Undone . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . This may be Printed , R.P. HEre is wondered strange News , I happen'd to discover , 'Tis of one who daily us'd to play the wanton Lover : She's neither Widow , Wife , nor Maid , but yet a most comely Creature , And in her Garb most richly Array'd , few Ladies are more Completer . With Rich Jewels , Chains and Rings , and also Silks and Laces , And with other costly things , all god by lewd Embraces : As to the Strand she did advance , a Cully did overtake her , By whom she lit of a sad Mischance , the which was enough to break her . First he took her by the hand , this seemed to provoke her , But he'd not disputing stand , but did both kiss and stroke her : Saying , with thee this night i'le lie , sure it can be no great Evil : But her reply was , Pish , nay fie , I pray you kind Sir be Civil . Straight he show'd her Gold good store , and vow'd he would not harm her , She could not deny no more , the Guinnies did so charm her : Thus presently they both agreed , without any longer dodging , And walked near Charing-Cross with speed , to hire a private Lodging . There they passed for Man and Wife , the People did believe them , This did please her to the life , to think how they deceiv'd them : They to the Chamber then repair , to quench Loves flaming fire , Said he , my sweet and Charming fair , one thing I must needs desire . Said he , one Oath I made alone , and loath I am to break it , That was , ne'r to lie with one , but what shall be stark Naked : Said she , Love , your demand's but small , it being warm Summer weather , So straight she stripped off Smock and all , and thus did big both together . Soon after the Day did break , then in the Morning early , This young Jilt he did forsake , and left her sleeping fairly ; And straight he packed up all her Cl [ oaths ] so much as her fine Lac'd Smick [ ? ] And down the Stairs in haste he g [ oes ] O was he not Monstrous Wicked When she wak'd and found him gone [ e ] she straightways rapt and thund [ ered ] And did bitterly take on , to see how she was plunder'd Of Smock and all her rich Array , she cou'd not tell how to take it , For he had carry'd all away , and left her in Bed stark Naked . And old Gown they had in store , to hide her shame , they gave her Then they turn'd her out of door , and finely did beslave her ; So that she daily does repine , and is with sad sorrow laden , For since she has lost her Feathers poor heart ! she has pitiful Tre [ assures ] Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newg [ ate . ] 