Saint BERNARD's VISION : Or , a brief Discourse , Dialogue Wise . Between the Soul and Body of a damned Man , newly deceased , laying the Faults one upon the other . Tune of , Flying Fame . AS I lay slumbering on my Bed on Night , A fearful Vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw the Soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estat . Wailing with fight the Soul aloud did cry , Upon the Body in the Coffin by , And thus the Soul to it did make her moan ; With grievous Sobs any many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful flesh which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The Sun is set which yesterday did shine , Where is thy train that did attend on thee ; Where is thy Mirth , where is thy Jollity , Where are thy sumptious buildings and thy treasure , Thy pleasant walks wherein thou took'st pleasure Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in a shrine are urn'd , For thy rich Clothes thou hast a winding sheet , Thy high built Roof now with thy mouth does But i poor Soul was framed a noble creature meet'' In likeness to my God of heavenly feature , But by thy since while we on Earth abided . I am made forth , than a loathsome Toad , Oh wretched Flesh with me that art forlorn , Thou well may wish thou never had'st been born Thou would'st never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . i am and must forever be in pain , No tongue can tell the Torments i sustain , But thou and me must descend to Hell . That we in frying Flames must ever dwell , it was thy Pride , Deceit and Luxury . Brought these Torments both on me and thee . Thy wife thy children , friends whom thou didst trust . Do loath thy Carcase lying in the Dust. The book of God which is both true and sure , Witness at Large what sinners shall endure , Thou that within the Bed of Earth are laid , Arise and Answer to the Words i said , [ TO ] he Body speaks . I knew thee well my Soul which from me fled , Which left my Body senseless cold and dead , Cease thou to say the fault was in me , When i will prove the fault was most in thee , Thou say'st that I have led thee oft astray , And from will doing drown thee quite away , But if the Flesh the spirits Power can move , The soul is thine as i well as plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair And of celestial Knowledge gave you share I was your Servant framed of Earth and Clay You to Command and i for to obey 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will And not let me do these things were ill . The Body's works are from the soul divided And by the soul the Body should be guided . The Body of it self no ill hath known If i did what thou didst the Gilded thine own For without thee the Body rests dead The soul commands it rest upon thy head . Soon conclude thy guilt exceeds mine Oh how the Worms do tear me in my shrine And therefore thee well poor sinful Soul Thy trespasses pass mine tho' they'r foul . The Soul speaks . Most wretched flesh which in the time of Life , Wos foolish idle vain and full of strife , Though of thy Substance thou did speak to me , I do confess i should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and i [ l ] l. Still me resisted and would have thy will . When i would thee Oh body have controlled , Straight the world's Vanities did me withould , So thou of me didst gain the upper hand , enthralling me in world pleasure band , That thou and i eternal shall be drown'd . in Hell when glorious Saints in Heaven are crown-ed , But flattering fancy did my mind so please , thought never thoughtest to die till death did cease This was thy fault and cursed was our fate , Which we repent but now alas ! too late . The Body speaks . O how i weep being scourg'd with my one rod , We both stand Guilty 'fore the Face of God , Both are in fault and yet not equally ; The greatest burden soul on thee does lie . No wit so mean but this for truth it know that were most gift of Virtue God bestows , there is most due and ought repaid be . And unto this there none but will agree , But foolishly thou Yieldest unta mi And to my vain desires did'st soon agree But o ! i knew not at the latter Hour , But thou and i must find a death most sure , I greatly fear and everlasting Fire , Yet one thing more i do of thee desire , Hast thou been yet among the fiends of Hell , Is no hope's left that we with Christ may dwell False flesh remember Dives was deny'd When for one drop of water he so prayed thy question senseless body wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless out of season Vile Body go and rot in Bed of Clay Until the great and General Judgement day . then shalt thou rise and be with me condemn'd to Hell hight Lake for ever without end So fare thee well i will no longer stay Hark how the fiends of Hell call me away . The Loss of heavenly joys torments me . More than all tortures that in Hell can be . The Devil Speaks . Ho are you come whom we expected long Now we will make you sing another Song . Howling and Yielding still shall be your Note . And melted Led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do our Servants load Now thou art worse than is the loathsome toad . Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide When thou in flaming Sulphre shall be fry'd Thou art a soldier of our Camp enroll'd Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold , The pains prepared for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome Oh welcome to the Pit of Hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep full soar , And then the fiends did laugh with joy and roar Those deeds seem more black than pitch or night Whose horrid shapes did me sorely me affright . Siz [ e ] prickled Forks each in their hands did bear Tusked their teeth like crooked mattocks wear Fire and Brimstone then they breathed out , And from their Nostrils Snakes crawl'd all about Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their Nails were like the tusks of a Boar , Those Hellish fiends fast bound this wretched soar And dragged him in , who grievously did howl , Then straight methought appeared in my sighed A beauteous young man clothed all in white , His Face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the rainbow and his hair like gold . With a sweet-Voice , All hail all hail quoth he , Arise and write what here thou now dost see Most heavenly Music seemed then to Play And in a Cloud he vanished quit away . Awaking straight i took my pen in hand Ao Write these Lines the man did command Tnd so abroad into the World its sent That each good Christian may in time repent then let us fear the Lord both Night and Day Preserve our Souls and Bodies we thee pray God grant we may so run this moral Raze that we in Heaven may have a resting Place Preserve the King and all his Progeny the Clergy Council and Nobility Preserve our Souls and Bodies i thee pray Amen with me let all good Christians say . Saint BERNARD's VISION : Or , a brief Discourse , Dialogue Wise . Between the Soul and Body of a damned Man , newly deceased , laying the Faults one upon the other . Tune of , Flying Fame . AS I lay slumbering on my Bed on Night , A fearful Vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw the Soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estat . Wailing with fight the Soul aloud did cry , Upon the Body in the Coffin by , And thus the Soul to it did make her moan ; With grievous Sobs any many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful flesh which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The Sun is set which yesterday did shine , Where is thy train that did attend on thee ; Where is thy Mirth , where is thy Jollity , Where are thy sumptious buildings and thy treasure , Thy pleasant walks wherein thou took'st pleasure Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in a shrine are urn'd , For thy rich Clothes thou hast a winding sheet , Thy high built Roof now with thy mouth does But i poor Soul was framed a noble creature meet'' In likeness to my God of heavenly feature , But by thy since while we on Earth abided . I am made forth , than a loathsome Toad , Oh wretched Flesh with me that art forlorn , Thou well may wish thou never had'st been born Thou would'st never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . i am and must forever be in pain , No tongue can tell the Torments i sustain , But thou and me must descend to Hell . That we in frying Flames must ever dwell , it was thy Pride , Deceit and Luxury . Brought these Torments both on me and thee . Thy wife thy children , friends whom thou didst trust . Do loath thy Carcase lying in the Dust. The book of God which is both true and sure , Witness at Large what sinners shall endure , Thou that within the Bed of Earth are laid , Arise and Answer to the Words i said , [ TO ] he Body speaks . I knew thee well my Soul which from me fled , Which left my Body senseless cold and dead , Cease thou to say the fault was in me , When i will prove the fault was most in thee , Thou say'st that I have led thee oft astray , And from will doing drown thee quite away , But if the Flesh the spirits Power can move , The soul is thine as i well as plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair And of celestial Knowledge gave you share I was your Servant framed of Earth and Clay You to Command and i for to obey 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will And not let me do these things were ill . The Body's works are from the soul divided And by the soul the Body should be guided . The Body of it self no ill hath known If i did what thou didst the Gilded thine own For without thee the Body rests dead The soul commands it rest upon thy head . Soon conclude thy guilt exceeds mine Oh how the Worms do tear me in my shrine And therefore thee well poor sinful Soul Thy trespasses pass mine tho' they'r foul . The Soul speaks . Most wretched flesh which in the time of Life , Wos foolish idle vain and full of strife , Though of thy Substance thou did speak to me , I do confess i should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and i [ l ] l. Still me resisted and would have thy will . When i would thee Oh body have controlled , Straight the world's Vanities did me withould , So thou of me didst gain the upper hand , enthralling me in world pleasure band , That thou and i eternal shall be drown'd . in Hell when glorious Saints in Heaven are crown-ed , But flattering fancy did my mind so please , thought never thoughtest to die till death did cease This was thy fault and cursed was our fate , Which we repent but now alas ! too late . The Body speaks . O how i weep being scourg'd with my one rod , We both stand Guilty 'fore the Face of God , Both are in fault and yet not equally ; The greatest burden soul on thee does lie . No wit so mean but this for truth it know that were most gift of Virtue God bestows , there is most due and ought repaid be . And unto this there none but will agree , But foolishly thou Yieldest unta mi And to my vain desires did'st soon agree But o ! i knew not at the latter Hour , But thou and i must find a death most sure , I greatly fear and everlasting Fire , Yet one thing more i do of thee desire , Hast thou been yet among the fiends of Hell , Is no hope's left that we with Christ may dwell False flesh remember Dives was deny'd When for one drop of water he so prayed thy question senseless body wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless out of season Vile Body go and rot in Bed of Clay Until the great and General Judgement day . then shalt thou rise and be with me condemn'd to Hell hight Lake for ever without end So fare thee well i will no longer stay Hark how the fiends of Hell call me away . The Loss of heavenly joys torments me . More than all tortures that in Hell can be . The Devil Speaks . Ho are you come whom we expected long Now we will make you sing another Song . Howling and Yielding still shall be your Note . And melted Led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do our Servants load Now thou art worse than is the loathsome toad . Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide When thou in flaming Sulphre shall be fry'd Thou art a soldier of our Camp enroll'd Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold , The pains prepared for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome Oh welcome to the Pit of Hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep full soar , And then the fiends did laugh with joy and roar Those deeds seem more black than pitch or night Whose horrid shapes did me sorely me affright . Siz [ e ] prickled Forks each in their hands did bear Tusked their teeth like crooked mattocks wear Fire and Brimstone then they breathed out , And from their Nostrils Snakes crawl'd all about Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their Nails were like the tusks of a Boar , Those Hellish fiends fast bound this wretched soar And dragged him in , who grievously did howl , Then straight methought appeared in my sighed A beauteous young man clothed all in white , His Face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the rainbow and his hair like gold . With a sweet-Voice , All hail all hail quoth he , Arise and write what here thou now dost see Most heavenly Music seemed then to Play And in a Cloud he vanished quit away . Awaking straight i took my pen in hand Ao Write these Lines the man did command Tnd so abroad into the World its sent That each good Christian may in time repent then let us fear the Lord both Night and Day Preserve our Souls and Bodies we thee pray God grant we may so run this moral Raze that we in Heaven may have a resting Place Preserve the King and all his Progeny the Clergy Council and Nobility Preserve our Souls and Bodies i thee pray Amen with me let all good Christians say . 