THE Well-shap'd West-Country Lass , Set forth in her Proper Shapes and Qualities . She is so Fair in her Degree , that most she does surpass , I fear that many now will be in Love with this Fair Lass. To the Tune of , Cavalilly Man. Licensed according to Order . HI-ho my heart it is light , I han't saw my Love since last Saturday night , If I should meet her she and I should fight ; And this is my Love d'ye like her ho ? Her Hair is as White as a Ravens Feather , Her Skin is like to New-Tann'd Leather , The Dogs all fight when she comes hither ; and this is my Love , etc She has two little Eyes in her head , As big as two Halfpenny Loaves of bred , And every night she Shits in Bed , And this is my Love , etc Her Teeth are long , and nothing white Liking to the Claws of a Kite , I never could Kiss her for fear she should bite ; And this is my Love , etc Her Mouth is of a notable size , Will hold a Peck and half at twice , She says she has a bigger between her Thighs And this is my Love , etc Her Nose is long , which do's her adorn , In fashion like to a Shooing-Horn , You never saw such a one since you were born , And this is my Love , etc Her Dugs are made of Stretching Leather , Just like unto and Old Cow's Udder , To suckle the Devil she'd make a good Mother , And this is my Love , etc But if I shou'd speak of her Leg and Foot , I know you wou'd all have a fancy to't , Her small may compare to a Trooper's Jack-Boot And this is my Love , etc My Jewel she is a sweet Amorous Lass , Last Wednesday night it so come to pass , She stuck a light Candle into her Arse ; And this is my Love , etc My Love she has got a delicate Spring ; Her Smock she do's wet that the same you may wring It has a sweet Scent , Sir , as strong as Old-Ling : And this is my Love , etc Sometime to her Lodging I softly do creep , And there I behold her lie all of a heap , She Fists and she Fizzles , and Farts in her sleep : And this is my Love , etc One day she happen'd to be at a Feast , Her Stomach I tell you , is none of the least , And there she did twist like a Cormorant Beas And this is my Love , etc Her Mouth is so large there's none can excel it , A lusty good Buttock of Beef will but fill it , Beside she's as strait as a crooked Bille And this is my Love , etc Her Feet with her Sweat is Greasy and Fat , Her Shoes and her Stockings she daily do's rat , Her Toes are as long as the Tail of a Ca And this is my Love , etc I now having spoke of this Lass fair and gay , My friends I do tell you , I fear , by my say , That some of these Youngmen will steal her away ; If you fallen in Love with my Dear , Hi-ho . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . THE Well-shap'd West-Country Lass , Set forth in her Proper Shapes and Qualities . She is so Fair in her Degree , that most she does surpass , I fear that many now will be in Love with this Fair Lass. To the Tune of , Cavalilly Man. Licensed according to Order . HI-ho my heart it is light , I han't saw my Love since last Saturday night , If I should meet her she and I should fight ; And this is my Love d'ye like her ho ? Her Hair is as White as a Ravens Feather , Her Skin is like to New-Tann'd Leather , The Dogs all fight when she comes hither ; and this is my Love , etc She has two little Eyes in her head , As big as two Halfpenny Loaves of bred , And every night she Shits in Bed , And this is my Love , etc Her Teeth are long , and nothing white Liking to the Claws of a Kite , I never could Kiss her for fear she should bite ; And this is my Love , etc Her Mouth is of a notable size , Will hold a Peck and half at twice , She says she has a bigger between her Thighs And this is my Love , etc Her Nose is long , which do's her adorn , In fashion like to a Shooing-Horn , You never saw such a one since you were born , And this is my Love , etc Her Dugs are made of Stretching Leather , Just like unto and Old Cow's Udder , To suckle the Devil she'd make a good Mother , And this is my Love , etc But if I shou'd speak of her Leg and Foot , I know you wou'd all have a fancy to't , Her small may compare to a Trooper's Jack-Boot And this is my Love , etc My Jewel she is a sweet Amorous Lass , Last Wednesday night it so come to pass , She stuck a light Candle into her Arse ; And this is my Love , etc My Love she has got a delicate Spring ; Her Smock she do's wet that the same you may wring It has a sweet Scent , Sir , as strong as Old-Ling : And this is my Love , etc Sometime to her Lodging I softly do creep , And there I behold her lie all of a heap , She Fists and she Fizzles , and Farts in her sleep : And this is my Love , etc One day she happen'd to be at a Feast , Her Stomach I tell you , is none of the least , And there she did twist like a Cormorant Beas And this is my Love , etc Her Mouth is so large there's none can excel it , A lusty good Buttock of Beef will but fill it , Beside she's as strait as a crooked Bille And this is my Love , etc Her Feet with her Sweat is Greasy and Fat , Her Shoes and her Stockings she daily do's rat , Her Toes are as long as the Tail of a Ca And this is my Love , etc I now having spoke of this Lass fair and gay , My friends I do tell you , I fear , by my say , That some of these Youngmen will steal her away ; If you fallen in Love with my Dear , Hi-ho . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . 