Hey ho Hunt about . OR , A pretty merry meeting of young men and Maids , Who went to the Tavern by Cupids strong aids , They drank and were me [ r ] ry and sang a new Song , They talked and discours'd but did no body wrong , They kindly imbrac'd , and each other did kiss , You know there could be no great harm in this . The Tune is , the Courageous hartulesse healths . HEy ho hunt about , Find my true Love out , Knock at my Chamber door , I have gold in my pocket , And thou shalt not lack it , And when that's spent we'l have more I have gold in my pocket , And thou shalt not lack it , And when that is gone we'l have more . Hey ho do not stay But make haste away , Unto the Tavern let's high , Where we will be merry , With Sugar and sherry : Then who but my sweetheart and I ? Where we will be merry , etc Hey ho hearts delight , Titan shines bright , And beautifieth the day , Cupid adds lusters , To me and my sisters , As fresh as the flowers in May . Cupid adds lusters , etc Heres Sisly and Nanny , Heres Rachel and Jany , Heres Do [ r ] case and sweet Winifright , Heres Susan and Sara , Heres Nelly and Mary , which in merriment take much delight Heres Susan and Sara , etc Heres sweet Alice and Prudence , Who will not exclude us , Rebecka and Debera also , Here's bonny fine Peg , That's as right as my leg , Prepar'd along with us to go . Heres bonny fine Peg , etc Heres dainty young Dolly , Both jovial and jolly , Heres Jone and fair Maudlin so brave . Heres pretty witty Betty , Newly come to the City , And we shall there company have . Heres pretty witty Betty , etc And now all together , Like Birds of a Feather , Let every Maid take her sweet heart ; To man her along , But not to do wrong , We'l merry meet and merry part . To man her along , And to do no wrong , Weel merry meet , and merry part . FAir maids and young men When they meet now and then , May be merry for and hour or a day , To laugh and make sport , In a good honest sort , And in friendship to pass time away . To laugh and make sport In a good honest sort , And in friendship to pass time away . We paint not our Faces , Nor powder our Traces , Nor hudle up our heads in black bags The Scarffs that some wear , If well look'd on they were , will be found to be no better then rags The scarffs , etc Our habits are civil And we think no evil , Our hearts and our minds do agree , And now my sweet heart , Before we depart , In love here's a full cup to thee . And now my sweet heart , etc Hey ho come away , Drawer brings wine I say , While we are here let us not lack , I'll pay for thee for all Whatsoever we call : Both for white wine for Claret & Sack Wee'l pay thee for all etc Hey ho let us drink , Fill the cup to the brink , And so let this health go round , Like sister and brother , We'l pledge one another , Our joys shall with Nector be crowned Like sister , etc And thus the brave Lasses , Did tipple up the glasses , Their sweethearts being in company then To sweeten their wine , With kisses most fine , They shew'd themselves kind hearted men With kisses , etc And being kind hearted , Before they departed , Each lad took his leave of his sweating And promised them , To be merry again , And pointed a time for their meeting . And then , etc Though they so merry were , With wine and merry cheer No harm was thought spoken or meant . The day being done , Each one to his home , Departed with love and content . The day being done , Each one to his home , Departed with love and content . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Hey ho Hunt about . OR , A pretty merry meeting of young men and Maids , Who went to the Tavern by Cupids strong aids , They drank and were me [ r ] ry and sang a new Song , They talked and discours'd but did no body wrong , They kindly imbrac'd , and each other did kiss , You know there could be no great harm in this . The Tune is , the Courageous hartulesse healths . HEy ho hunt about , Find my true Love out , Knock at my Chamber door , I have gold in my pocket , And thou shalt not lack it , And when that's spent we'l have more I have gold in my pocket , And thou shalt not lack it , And when that is gone we'l have more . Hey ho do not stay But make haste away , Unto the Tavern let's high , Where we will be merry , With Sugar and sherry : Then who but my sweetheart and I ? Where we will be merry , etc Hey ho hearts delight , Titan shines bright , And beautifieth the day , Cupid adds lusters , To me and my sisters , As fresh as the flowers in May . Cupid adds lusters , etc Heres Sisly and Nanny , Heres Rachel and Jany , Heres Do [ r ] case and sweet Winifright , Heres Susan and Sara , Heres Nelly and Mary , which in merriment take much delight Heres Susan and Sara , etc Heres sweet Alice and Prudence , Who will not exclude us , Rebecka and Debera also , Here's bonny fine Peg , That's as right as my leg , Prepar'd along with us to go . Heres bonny fine Peg , etc Heres dainty young Dolly , Both jovial and jolly , Heres Jone and fair Maudlin so brave . Heres pretty witty Betty , Newly come to the City , And we shall there company have . Heres pretty witty Betty , etc And now all together , Like Birds of a Feather , Let every Maid take her sweet heart ; To man her along , But not to do wrong , We'l merry meet and merry part . To man her along , And to do no wrong , Weel merry meet , and merry part . FAir maids and young men When they meet now and then , May be merry for and hour or a day , To laugh and make sport , In a good honest sort , And in friendship to pass time away . To laugh and make sport In a good honest sort , And in friendship to pass time away . We paint not our Faces , Nor powder our Traces , Nor hudle up our heads in black bags The Scarffs that some wear , If well look'd on they were , will be found to be no better then rags The scarffs , etc Our habits are civil And we think no evil , Our hearts and our minds do agree , And now my sweet heart , Before we depart , In love here's a full cup to thee . And now my sweet heart , etc Hey ho come away , Drawer brings wine I say , While we are here let us not lack , I'll pay for thee for all Whatsoever we call : Both for white wine for Claret & Sack Wee'l pay thee for all etc Hey ho let us drink , Fill the cup to the brink , And so let this health go round , Like sister and brother , We'l pledge one another , Our joys shall with Nector be crowned Like sister , etc And thus the brave Lasses , Did tipple up the glasses , Their sweethearts being in company then To sweeten their wine , With kisses most fine , They shew'd themselves kind hearted men With kisses , etc And being kind hearted , Before they departed , Each lad took his leave of his sweating And promised them , To be merry again , And pointed a time for their meeting . And then , etc Though they so merry were , With wine and merry cheer No harm was thought spoken or meant . The day being done , Each one to his home , Departed with love and content . The day being done , Each one to his home , Departed with love and content . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 