The BURGOMASTER . HERE you may see the turns of faith , From woe to joy , from grief to great , A mark of fortune's special love , Who did a soldier's grief remove . One who in former days of old , Had trudg'd thro' weather , hight and cold , Till he was poor and pennyless , You'd have laugh'd to seen his dress . His shoes with trudging up and down , No soles they had , his hat no crown , His coat no sleeves , his shirt the same , But by his side a sword of fame . Without a scabbard , good or bad , Nor was there any to be had , His coat and breeches would not come , In depth to cover half his bum . Now being weary of his trade , One day he to his captain said , Pray now give me a full discharge , That I my fortune may enlarge , I am persuaded I shall be , A burgomaster , sir , said he , Of Venice , if you'll let me go , His captain laughing , answer'd no . With you , said he , I will not part , Then thought the soldier , he'd desert His colours , let what will befall , And soon he went for good and all . Now as he march'd with all his might , A coachman and his worthy knight , Upon the road by chance he found , And ask'd to borrow full five pounds . At this the knight laugh'd out amain . And said when will you pay't again , He answer'd sir , you shall be paid , When I am burgomaster made . Of Venice , which will be my lot , The noble knight away he god , And laugh'd to see him in that trim , But yet the coachman lent it him . This being done , away he went , To Venice , where some time he spent , To view the palaces , rich and gay , And to the burgo's took his way . Who kept a house to entertain , All kinds of guests , he call'd amain , For wine and other liquours free , Tho' in a wretched garb was he . THIS soldier was a jovial blade , While in pleasure there he stay'd , Behold , a squire living near , Courted the burgo's daughter dear . Now as he kept her company , One day the soldier sitting by , Feigning to sleep , he overheard , Their private talk as it appear'd . Part of their private talk was this , My dear sweet love , the charming bliss , Let me enjoy this self same night , The damsel told him that he might . If that he'd to her chamber creep , When all the house was fast asleep , About the hour of twelve o'clock , She would the door for him unlock . The soldier herd the whole design , Thought he the pleasure shall be mine , And thereupon he went before , To the young lady's chamber door . He knock'd , and strait she let him in , The pleasant game did soon begin , And 'ere and hour's space was passed , Her love , the squire came at last . He knock'd , who's that ? the lady cry'd The soldier lying by her side . Said , 'tis that ragged fellow sure , Who seem'd as if he slept secure , He herd us , and is come to have , The pleasure that thy love did crave , But 'tis in vain , for I will rise , And with the pisspot blind his eyes . According , in a woeful case , He dash'd it in the squires face , Away he goes and nothing said , Supposing that it was the maid . She laughed at the pleasant jest , And gave him then ( among the rest , A diamond ring , with kisses sweet , But did not understand the cheat . Then he arose and went his way , Behold , on the succeeding day , Upon his hand the ring she spy'd , Pray where had you the same , she cry'd . He answer'd her , and thus he said , Pray be not in the least dismay'd , For you was loving , kind , and free , Last night , and gave the same to me . O , bless me , did I lie with you , Since it is so I pray be true , And do not let the same be told , So you shall never want for gold . He vow'd he would conceal the same , Soon after that the squire came , Saying , why was you so unkind , The pisspot made me almost blind . She answer'd with a hearty curse , 'Twas good enough , if it were worse , Because you thought to ruin me , My honour and my chastity . IN part the third we must return , Unto a mighty great concern , Concerning of some thousand pounds , Which the poor soldier's fortune crowns , Behold her wealthy father he , Did send four mighty ships to sea , Laden with glorious merchandise , Rich silks and other wares likewise . They had been gone full seven years , No tale or tidings could be herd , Of them , at length he gave them o'er , And never thought to see them more , At length there was a letter brought , The ships was safe , with riches fraught , Near to the borders of the land , The news came to his daughter's hand . Then having view'd & read the same , She to the ragged soldier came , Saying , he true , my dear , to me , Thou shalt a Burgomaster be . My father thinks his ships are lost , Which are now on the Venice coast , Then e'er he does the tidings hear , Go buy his right in them , my dear . And when thou hast the bargain bou't Of four large ships so richly fraught , Be what it will , of me you shall , Have money for to pay for all . Then on her father he did wait , And struck a bargain with him straight , For the four ships four hundred pounds , Whither the same were lost or found . No sooner were the writings made , And that small sum of money paid , But strait he herd the ships were come , Their burden was a mighty sum . Then did the burgomaster fret , That he with such a loss had met , But since it could no better be , He with the soldier did agree , To take his daughter for his bride , With all my heart then he reply'd , Then out of hand they married were . The soldier and the lady fair . No sooner were they man and wife , But strait her father left this life , And when he in the grave was laid , The son was burgomaster made . He that had travell'd many a mile , Was now by fortune's special smile , Made mighty , powerful , and great , And knew no end of his estate . NOW mind the latter part , I pray , I make no question but you'll say , Still as you read this story out , These things was strangely brought about While he was burgomaster there , His former captain did repair , Unto his house , and chanc'd to dine , With other brave commanders fine . The burgomaster seeing that , He straight put on his crownless hat , With all his other ragged clothes , And so into the room he goes , The captain then begun to swear , Lieutenant ! pray see who is there , My ragged burgomaster , who In private from his colours flew . Then from the presence of his guest , He stepped away --- himself he dressed , In sumptuous robes he dressed amain , And then retir'd to them again . The captain said right worthy sir , Here is a foolish ragged cur , Endow'd with neither wit nor sense , I'll hang him e're I go from hence . He from his colours did desert , Says the burgomaster be not so tart , In presence of these gentlemen , Write his discharge here's guineas ten . He wrote the same and took the gold , The burgomaster said behold , I am the man , and now alas , What once I said is come to pass . The captain then began to fume , And told his gallants in the room , If that he'd known as much before , It should have cost him ten times more . At length within a month or less , The knight which once he did address , To lend him five pounds on the road , Come there to take up his abided . The burgomaster as before , Put on his robes both rend and tore , That so the knight might know him strait As he did on his worship wait . He to his coachman turn'd him round , And said here's one owes you five pound When do you think the same to get , He is no burgomaster yet . The coachman said as I do live , I freely do the same forgive , Because I to my sorrow see , He still remains in poverty . For some short time he went away , And dress'd himself in rich array , In feathers fine , and rich perfume , And so return'd into the room . Having discours'd with them a while , He told the coachman with a smile , As he'd help'd him in time of need , He would return it now indeed . He gave him five thousand pounds , Likewise a match for him he found , A sweet young lady fair and clear , Daughter of a renowned peer . The knight was vexed to the heart , That he must with his servant part , But let him grieve , it must be so , Whither his lordship will or no . Thus he who once was mean & poor , At length enjoy'd a happy store , Which fortune unto him did send , And he prov'd grateful to his friend . J. TURNER , PRINTER , HIGH STREET , COVENTRY , Supplies Shopkeepers & Travellers with all sorts of Histories ; New and Old Ballads ; Godly and other Patters , Carols ; Cock Robin , Tom Thumb , London Cries ; and various The BURGOMASTER . HERE you may see the turns of faith , From woe to joy , from grief to great , A mark of fortune's special love , Who did a soldier's grief remove . One who in former days of old , Had trudg'd thro' weather , hight and cold , Till he was poor and pennyless , You'd have laugh'd to seen his dress . His shoes with trudging up and down , No soles they had , his hat no crown , His coat no sleeves , his shirt the same , But by his side a sword of fame . Without a scabbard , good or bad , Nor was there any to be had , His coat and breeches would not come , In depth to cover half his bum . Now being weary of his trade , One day he to his captain said , Pray now give me a full discharge , That I my fortune may enlarge , I am persuaded I shall be , A burgomaster , sir , said he , Of Venice , if you'll let me go , His captain laughing , answer'd no . With you , said he , I will not part , Then thought the soldier , he'd desert His colours , let what will befall , And soon he went for good and all . Now as he march'd with all his might , A coachman and his worthy knight , Upon the road by chance he found , And ask'd to borrow full five pounds . At this the knight laugh'd out amain . And said when will you pay't again , He answer'd sir , you shall be paid , When I am burgomaster made . Of Venice , which will be my lot , The noble knight away he god , And laugh'd to see him in that trim , But yet the coachman lent it him . This being done , away he went , To Venice , where some time he spent , To view the palaces , rich and gay , And to the burgo's took his way . Who kept a house to entertain , All kinds of guests , he call'd amain , For wine and other liquours free , Tho' in a wretched garb was he . THIS soldier was a jovial blade , While in pleasure there he stay'd , Behold , a squire living near , Courted the burgo's daughter dear . Now as he kept her company , One day the soldier sitting by , Feigning to sleep , he overheard , Their private talk as it appear'd . Part of their private talk was this , My dear sweet love , the charming bliss , Let me enjoy this self same night , The damsel told him that he might . If that he'd to her chamber creep , When all the house was fast asleep , About the hour of twelve o'clock , She would the door for him unlock . The soldier herd the whole design , Thought he the pleasure shall be mine , And thereupon he went before , To the young lady's chamber door . He knock'd , and strait she let him in , The pleasant game did soon begin , And 'ere and hour's space was passed , Her love , the squire came at last . He knock'd , who's that ? the lady cry'd The soldier lying by her side . Said , 'tis that ragged fellow sure , Who seem'd as if he slept secure , He herd us , and is come to have , The pleasure that thy love did crave , But 'tis in vain , for I will rise , And with the pisspot blind his eyes . According , in a woeful case , He dash'd it in the squires face , Away he goes and nothing said , Supposing that it was the maid . She laughed at the pleasant jest , And gave him then ( among the rest , A diamond ring , with kisses sweet , But did not understand the cheat . Then he arose and went his way , Behold , on the succeeding day , Upon his hand the ring she spy'd , Pray where had you the same , she cry'd . He answer'd her , and thus he said , Pray be not in the least dismay'd , For you was loving , kind , and free , Last night , and gave the same to me . O , bless me , did I lie with you , Since it is so I pray be true , And do not let the same be told , So you shall never want for gold . He vow'd he would conceal the same , Soon after that the squire came , Saying , why was you so unkind , The pisspot made me almost blind . She answer'd with a hearty curse , 'Twas good enough , if it were worse , Because you thought to ruin me , My honour and my chastity . IN part the third we must return , Unto a mighty great concern , Concerning of some thousand pounds , Which the poor soldier's fortune crowns , Behold her wealthy father he , Did send four mighty ships to sea , Laden with glorious merchandise , Rich silks and other wares likewise . They had been gone full seven years , No tale or tidings could be herd , Of them , at length he gave them o'er , And never thought to see them more , At length there was a letter brought , The ships was safe , with riches fraught , Near to the borders of the land , The news came to his daughter's hand . Then having view'd & read the same , She to the ragged soldier came , Saying , he true , my dear , to me , Thou shalt a Burgomaster be . My father thinks his ships are lost , Which are now on the Venice coast , Then e'er he does the tidings hear , Go buy his right in them , my dear . And when thou hast the bargain bou't Of four large ships so richly fraught , Be what it will , of me you shall , Have money for to pay for all . Then on her father he did wait , And struck a bargain with him straight , For the four ships four hundred pounds , Whither the same were lost or found . No sooner were the writings made , And that small sum of money paid , But strait he herd the ships were come , Their burden was a mighty sum . Then did the burgomaster fret , That he with such a loss had met , But since it could no better be , He with the soldier did agree , To take his daughter for his bride , With all my heart then he reply'd , Then out of hand they married were . The soldier and the lady fair . No sooner were they man and wife , But strait her father left this life , And when he in the grave was laid , The son was burgomaster made . He that had travell'd many a mile , Was now by fortune's special smile , Made mighty , powerful , and great , And knew no end of his estate . NOW mind the latter part , I pray , I make no question but you'll say , Still as you read this story out , These things was strangely brought about While he was burgomaster there , His former captain did repair , Unto his house , and chanc'd to dine , With other brave commanders fine . The burgomaster seeing that , He straight put on his crownless hat , With all his other ragged clothes , And so into the room he goes , The captain then begun to swear , Lieutenant ! pray see who is there , My ragged burgomaster , who In private from his colours flew . Then from the presence of his guest , He stepped away --- himself he dressed , In sumptuous robes he dressed amain , And then retir'd to them again . The captain said right worthy sir , Here is a foolish ragged cur , Endow'd with neither wit nor sense , I'll hang him e're I go from hence . He from his colours did desert , Says the burgomaster be not so tart , In presence of these gentlemen , Write his discharge here's guineas ten . He wrote the same and took the gold , The burgomaster said behold , I am the man , and now alas , What once I said is come to pass . The captain then began to fume , And told his gallants in the room , If that he'd known as much before , It should have cost him ten times more . At length within a month or less , The knight which once he did address , To lend him five pounds on the road , Come there to take up his abided . The burgomaster as before , Put on his robes both rend and tore , That so the knight might know him strait As he did on his worship wait . He to his coachman turn'd him round , And said here's one owes you five pound When do you think the same to get , He is no burgomaster yet . The coachman said as I do live , I freely do the same forgive , Because I to my sorrow see , He still remains in poverty . For some short time he went away , And dress'd himself in rich array , In feathers fine , and rich perfume , And so return'd into the room . Having discours'd with them a while , He told the coachman with a smile , As he'd help'd him in time of need , He would return it now indeed . He gave him five thousand pounds , Likewise a match for him he found , A sweet young lady fair and clear , Daughter of a renowned peer . The knight was vexed to the heart , That he must with his servant part , But let him grieve , it must be so , Whither his lordship will or no . Thus he who once was mean & poor , At length enjoy'd a happy store , Which fortune unto him did send , And he prov'd grateful to his friend . J. TURNER , PRINTER , HIGH STREET , COVENTRY , Supplies Shopkeepers & Travellers with all sorts of Histories ; New and Old Ballads ; Godly and other Patters , Carols ; Cock Robin , Tom Thumb , London Cries ; and various other Play Books for Children , on reasonable terms . other Play Books for Children , on reasonable terms . 