I thank you twice : OR , The City Courting their own ruin , Thank the Parliament twice , for their triple undoing . THe Hierarchy is out of date , Our Monarchy was sick of late , But now 'tis grown to and excellent state , O God a mercy Parliament . The Teachers know not what to say , The Prentices have leave to play , The people have all forgotten to pray , Still God a mercy Parliament . The Roundhead , and the Cavalier Have fought it out almost seven year , And yet ( methinks ) they are never the near , O God etc The Gentry are sequestered all , Our Wives you find at Goldsmiths Hall , For there they meet with the Devil and all , Still God etc The Parliament are grown to that heighth , They care not a pin what his Majesty says , And they pay all their debts with the public faith , O God etc Though all we had here , is brought to nought , In Ireland we have whole Lordship's bought , And there we shall one day be rich , 'tis thought , Still God etc We must forsake our Father and Mother , And for the state , undo our own brother , And never leave murdering of one another , O God , etc Now the King is caught , and the Devil is dead , Fairefax must be disbanded , Or else he may chance to be Hothamed , Still God etc They have made King Charles a glorious King , He was told ( long ago ) of such a thing , Now he , and his Subject's have reason to sing , O God a mercy Parliament . Mr. Finis Mr. An. Dom. 1647. I thank you twice : OR , The City Courting their own ruin , Thank the Parliament twice , for their triple undoing . THe Hierarchy is out of date , Our Monarchy was sick of late , But now 'tis grown to and excellent state , O God a mercy Parliament . The Teachers know not what to say , The Prentices have leave to play , The people have all forgotten to pray , Still God a mercy Parliament . The Roundhead , and the Cavalier Have fought it out almost seven year , And yet ( methinks ) they are never the near , O God etc The Gentry are sequestered all , Our Wives you find at Goldsmiths Hall , For there they meet with the Devil and all , Still God etc The Parliament are grown to that heighth , They care not a pin what his Majesty says , And they pay all their debts with the public faith , O God etc Though all we had here , is brought to nought , In Ireland we have whole Lordship's bought , And there we shall one day be rich , 'tis thought , Still God etc We must forsake our Father and Mother , And for the state , undo our own brother , And never leave murdering of one another , O God , etc Now the King is caught , and the Devil is dead , Fairefax must be disbanded , Or else he may chance to be Hothamed , Still God etc They have made King Charles a glorious King , He was told ( long ago ) of such a thing , Now he , and his Subject's have reason to sing , O God a mercy Parliament . Mr. Finis Mr. An. Dom. 1647. 