A New IRISH Song , OF Lil-li burr Lero . To and Excellent New Tune . HO brother Teague dost hear the decree , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la That we shall have a new Debitte , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero Lero Lil-li burr Lero , Lero Lero bullen a la , Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero bullen a la . Ho by my shovl it is a Talbut Lil-li but lero , bullen a la , And will cut the English men's throat Lil-le burr lero , bullen a la . Lero Lero , etc Though by my shoul de English do prat Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . De Laws on dare side , and Christ knows what , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc But if dispense do come from de Pope , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Weel hang Magno Carto and demselves in a rope Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And the good Talbut is made a Lord , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . And he with brave Lads is coming abroad Lil-li burr lero bullen a la , Lero Lero , etc Who all in France have taken a swear Lil-li burr lero bullen a la , That day will have no Protestant here , Lil-li burr lero bullen a la . Lero , etc Oh but why does he stay thus behind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Oh by my shoul it was a Prodestant wind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Now Tirconnet is come to the shore , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And we shall have Commissions Go-lore , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And he that will not go to Mass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Shall be turned out and look like and Ass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Now now the Heretics go down , il-l burr lero bullen a la , By Christ and St. Pattrick the Nation's our own , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero Lero Lil-li burr Lero , Lero Lero bullen a la Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero bullen a la . FINIS . A New IRISH Song , OF Lil-li burr Lero . To and Excellent New Tune . HO brother Teague dost hear the decree , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la That we shall have a new Debitte , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero Lero Lil-li burr Lero , Lero Lero bullen a la , Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero bullen a la . Ho by my shovl it is a Talbut Lil-li but lero , bullen a la , And will cut the English men's throat Lil-le burr lero , bullen a la . Lero Lero , etc Though by my shoul de English do prat Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . De Laws on dare side , and Christ knows what , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc But if dispense do come from de Pope , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Weel hang Magno Carto and demselves in a rope Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And the good Talbut is made a Lord , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . And he with brave Lads is coming abroad Lil-li burr lero bullen a la , Lero Lero , etc Who all in France have taken a swear Lil-li burr lero bullen a la , That day will have no Protestant here , Lil-li burr lero bullen a la . Lero , etc Oh but why does he stay thus behind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Oh by my shoul it was a Prodestant wind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Now Tirconnet is come to the shore , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And we shall have Commissions Go-lore , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And he that will not go to Mass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Shall be turned out and look like and Ass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Now now the Heretics go down , il-l burr lero bullen a la , By Christ and St. Pattrick the Nation's our own , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero Lero Lil-li burr Lero , Lero Lero bullen a la Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero Lero bullen a la . FINIS . 