THE Triumph at and End , Or , The Tyranness Defeated . Behold how rashly Lovers hurry on Upon the point of sure destruction , Females are Tyrants , for when they see They are admir'd & lov'd , theyl cruel be : When most you shun them , then they most do love , Then let all mankind in a mean Still move : Or if your flame burn bright let them not know it , Your hope's are ruin'd if you once but show it . To the pleasant new tune of , How bright art thou etc Or. Young Jamey . HOw bright art thou whose Starry eyes two cruel Tyrants prove ! And though I fallen your Sacrifice , can no compassion move : I die , I languish in despair , and yet no pity find ; Oh hear at last , loved Nymph , my Prayer : Sweet Phillada be kind . How oft beneath the Myrtle shade have I adored thy Name , And with thy charming beauty play'd until I catch'd this Flame , Kindled a Fever in my Breast , inrag'd by Loves fierce wind ; Then pity him who is oppress sweet Phillada be kind . Be soft thou wonder of thy sex , as Down off silver Swans , Such beauty ne'r was made to vex Heavens Earthly darling Sons : Pity my sighs and groans ; O hear poor me express my mind ; To his melancholy moans give ear : sweet Phillada be kind . A truer Swain no Nymph can love , nor nobler passion gain ; A chaster flame in none can move , Though here it finds disdain , Though all in vain I grieve and moan , and can no favour find ; But though disdain despair drives on , sweet Phillada be kind . Poor Coridon implores thy Love , no longer cruel be , For if you still disdainful prove , and still will torture me , Behold unto the shades I go , for restless Love assign'd , To hinder me from shades below , sweet Phillada be kind . And on the Rock let me not lie of doubt and sad despair , This better far at once to die , than wade through Seas of care ; Where peevish coyness and disdain do Tempest-toss the mind : To ease me of my wretched pain , sweet Phillada be kind . By all the Woods , the Hills , and Springs , where e're our flocks have been , And by the Bird that nightly sings , and all the Stars i've seen , My passion shall for ever burn till I a Grave do find ; Then let me not thus sighs and mourn , sweet Phillada be kind . How often have you whisper'd Charms into my willing ear ? How oft been panting in my Arms , my ravish'd thoughts to cheer ? But , O the state of things below ! they change as does the wind : Yet e're I to Death's slumber go , sweet Phillada be kind . Triumph not in my misery , nor smile to see me grieve ; O pity me or else I die , none else can me reprieve : Injure not your Sex by thus bearing a cruel mind , Lest for your sake disdain'd rhey curse : then Phillada be kind . Alas ! 'tis all in vain I plead , she triumphs in my woe ; Oh! thus 'tis better for to bleed , than Loves fierce tortures know : Ah! welcome Death thou certain Cure for a diseased mind , Thy scorns no longer i'le endure , Proud , Cruel , and unkind . Printed for J. Wright J. Clark W. Thackery & T. Passenger THE Triumph at and End , Or , The Tyranness Defeated . Behold how rashly Lovers hurry on Upon the point of sure destruction , Females are Tyrants , for when they see They are admir'd & lov'd , theyl cruel be : When most you shun them , then they most do love , Then let all mankind in a mean Still move : Or if your flame burn bright let them not know it , Your hope's are ruin'd if you once but show it . To the pleasant new tune of , How bright art thou etc Or. Young Jamey . HOw bright art thou whose Starry eyes two cruel Tyrants prove ! And though I fallen your Sacrifice , can no compassion move : I die , I languish in despair , and yet no pity find ; Oh hear at last , loved Nymph , my Prayer : Sweet Phillada be kind . How oft beneath the Myrtle shade have I adored thy Name , And with thy charming beauty play'd until I catch'd this Flame , Kindled a Fever in my Breast , inrag'd by Loves fierce wind ; Then pity him who is oppress sweet Phillada be kind . Be soft thou wonder of thy sex , as Down off silver Swans , Such beauty ne'r was made to vex Heavens Earthly darling Sons : Pity my sighs and groans ; O hear poor me express my mind ; To his melancholy moans give ear : sweet Phillada be kind . A truer Swain no Nymph can love , nor nobler passion gain ; A chaster flame in none can move , Though here it finds disdain , Though all in vain I grieve and moan , and can no favour find ; But though disdain despair drives on , sweet Phillada be kind . Poor Coridon implores thy Love , no longer cruel be , For if you still disdainful prove , and still will torture me , Behold unto the shades I go , for restless Love assign'd , To hinder me from shades below , sweet Phillada be kind . And on the Rock let me not lie of doubt and sad despair , This better far at once to die , than wade through Seas of care ; Where peevish coyness and disdain do Tempest-toss the mind : To ease me of my wretched pain , sweet Phillada be kind . By all the Woods , the Hills , and Springs , where e're our flocks have been , And by the Bird that nightly sings , and all the Stars i've seen , My passion shall for ever burn till I a Grave do find ; Then let me not thus sighs and mourn , sweet Phillada be kind . How often have you whisper'd Charms into my willing ear ? How oft been panting in my Arms , my ravish'd thoughts to cheer ? But , O the state of things below ! they change as does the wind : Yet e're I to Death's slumber go , sweet Phillada be kind . Triumph not in my misery , nor smile to see me grieve ; O pity me or else I die , none else can me reprieve : Injure not your Sex by thus bearing a cruel mind , Lest for your sake disdain'd rhey curse : then Phillada be kind . Alas ! 'tis all in vain I plead , she triumphs in my woe ; Oh! thus 'tis better for to bleed , than Loves fierce tortures know : Ah! welcome Death thou certain Cure for a diseased mind , Thy scorns no longer i'le endure , Proud , Cruel , and unkind . Printed for J. Wright J. Clark W. Thackery & T. Passenger 