And Excellent New Song , To the Memorable Tune of Lillibullero . I . O ! Brother Tom , dost know the Intent , Lillibullero Bullen a la , Why they prorogue the Parliament ? Lillibullero Bullen a la . Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , etc II I think it is plain to be understood , Lillibullero , etc That by that same they mean us no good . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc III . For what can they mean who do not take care , Lillibullero , etc In time Preparations to make for the War ? Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc IV. And how without Money can we in the Spring , Lillibullero , etc Get early to Flanders , and drub the French King ? Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc V. Then is it not pity when Marlbro' so far is , Lillibullero , etc To stop his Career , and not let him take Paris ? Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc VI . Now all these Delays come not from Town-takers , Lillibullero , etc But , Oh! what is worse , they come from Peacemakers . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc VII . If Spain and the Indies they yield unto France , Lillibullero , etc Then we may go whistle , and eke also dance . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc VIII . And then poor Old England must lose all her Trade , Lillibullero , etc When e'er such a scandalous Peace shall be made . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc IX . O lack and a day ! I'm ready to cry , Lillibullero , etc To think how it savours of Popery . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc X. 'Tis not come to that already I hope , Lillibullero , etc Tho we might not burn the Pretender and Pope . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc XI . Therefore let it be our particular Care , Lillibullero , etc For Spain and the Indies to keep on the War. Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc XI . Which if we do roundly , I cannot but think , Lillibullero , etc John Marlbro' at last will make Lewis stink . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc XIII . So God bless the Queen , and the House of Hannover , Lillibullero , etc And never may Pope or Pretender come over . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . And Excellent New Song , To the Memorable Tune of Lillibullero . I . O ! Brother Tom , dost know the Intent , Lillibullero Bullen a la , Why they prorogue the Parliament ? Lillibullero Bullen a la . Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , etc II I think it is plain to be understood , Lillibullero , etc That by that same they mean us no good . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc III . For what can they mean who do not take care , Lillibullero , etc In time Preparations to make for the War ? Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc IV. And how without Money can we in the Spring , Lillibullero , etc Get early to Flanders , and drub the French King ? Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc V. Then is it not pity when Marlbro' so far is , Lillibullero , etc To stop his Career , and not let him take Paris ? Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc VI . Now all these Delays come not from Town-takers , Lillibullero , etc But , Oh! what is worse , they come from Peacemakers . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc VII . If Spain and the Indies they yield unto France , Lillibullero , etc Then we may go whistle , and eke also dance . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc VIII . And then poor Old England must lose all her Trade , Lillibullero , etc When e'er such a scandalous Peace shall be made . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc IX . O lack and a day ! I'm ready to cry , Lillibullero , etc To think how it savours of Popery . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc X. 'Tis not come to that already I hope , Lillibullero , etc Tho we might not burn the Pretender and Pope . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc XI . Therefore let it be our particular Care , Lillibullero , etc For Spain and the Indies to keep on the War. Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc XI . Which if we do roundly , I cannot but think , Lillibullero , etc John Marlbro' at last will make Lewis stink . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc XIII . So God bless the Queen , and the House of Hannover , Lillibullero , etc And never may Pope or Pretender come over . Lillibullero , etc Lero , Lero , etc Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . 