The ORANGE . 1. GOod people I pray Throw the Orange away , 'Tis a very sour Fruit , and was first brought in play When good Judith Wilk In her pocket brought Milk , And with Cushings and Warming-pans labour'd to bilk This same Orange . 2. When the Army retreats And the Parliament sits To Vote our K ------ the true use of his Wits : 'Twill be a sad means When all he obtains Is to have his Calves-head dress'd with other men's Brains , And and Orange . 3. The sins of his Youth Made him think of one Truth , When he spawl'd from his Lungs , and bled twice at the mouth , That your fresh sort of Food Does his Carcase more good , And the damn'd thing that Cur'd his putrefied blood Was and Orange . 4. This hopeful young Son Is surely his own Because from and Oh ------ it cry'd to be gone But the Heretics say He was god by Dam --- For neither K ------ nor the Nuncio dare stay Near and Orange . 5. Since Lewis was Cut From his Breech to the Gut , France fancies and open-arse delicate Fruit ; We wiser than so Have two strings to our bow For we've a good Q ------ that's and open-arse too , And and Orange . 6. Till Nanny writ much To the Rebels the WORSER ------ Her Mother , good Woman , ne're ow'd her a grutch And the box of the Ear Made the matter appear , That the only foul favour the Q ------ could not bear Was and Orange . 7. And honest old Peer That forsook God last year , Pull'd off all his Plasters , and Arm'd for the War ; But his Arms would not do , And his Aches throbb'd too , That he wish'd his own Pox and his M ------ s too On and Orange . 8. Old Tyburn must groan , For Jeffreys is known To have perjur'd his Conscience to marry his Son ; And WORSER ------ s cause Will be try'd by Just Laws , And Herbert must taste a most damnable Sauce With and Orange 9. Lobb , Penn , and a score Of those honest men more Will find this same Orange exceedingly sour ; The Q ------ to be seiz'd Will be very ill pleas'd , And so will K ------ Pippin , too dry to be squeez'd By and Orange . The ORANGE . 1. GOod people I pray Throw the Orange away , 'Tis a very sour Fruit , and was first brought in play When good Judith Wilk In her pocket brought Milk , And with Cushings and Warming-pans labour'd to bilk This same Orange . 2. When the Army retreats And the Parliament sits To Vote our K ------ the true use of his Wits : 'Twill be a sad means When all he obtains Is to have his Calves-head dress'd with other men's Brains , And and Orange . 3. The sins of his Youth Made him think of one Truth , When he spawl'd from his Lungs , and bled twice at the mouth , That your fresh sort of Food Does his Carcase more good , And the damn'd thing that Cur'd his putrefied blood Was and Orange . 4. This hopeful young Son Is surely his own Because from and Oh ------ it cry'd to be gone But the Heretics say He was god by Dam --- For neither K ------ nor the Nuncio dare stay Near and Orange . 5. Since Lewis was Cut From his Breech to the Gut , France fancies and open-arse delicate Fruit ; We wiser than so Have two strings to our bow For we've a good Q ------ that's and open-arse too , And and Orange . 6. Till Nanny writ much To the Rebels the WORSER ------ Her Mother , good Woman , ne're ow'd her a grutch And the box of the Ear Made the matter appear , That the only foul favour the Q ------ could not bear Was and Orange . 7. And honest old Peer That forsook God last year , Pull'd off all his Plasters , and Arm'd for the War ; But his Arms would not do , And his Aches throbb'd too , That he wish'd his own Pox and his M ------ s too On and Orange . 8. Old Tyburn must groan , For Jeffreys is known To have perjur'd his Conscience to marry his Son ; And WORSER ------ s cause Will be try'd by Just Laws , And Herbert must taste a most damnable Sauce With and Orange 9. Lobb , Penn , and a score Of those honest men more Will find this same Orange exceedingly sour ; The Q ------ to be seiz'd Will be very ill pleas'd , And so will K ------ Pippin , too dry to be squeez'd By and Orange . 