/ 2 A BALLAD UPON THE POPISH PLOT Written by a Lady of Quality . Whither you will like my song or like it not , It is the downfall of the Popish Plot ; With Characters of Plotters here I sing , Who would destroy our good and gracious King ; Whom God preserve , and give us cause to hope His Foes will be rewarded with a Rope . To the TUNE of Packington's Pound . 1. SInce Counterfeit Plots has affected this Age , Being acted by Fools , and contriv'd by the Sage : In City , nor Suburbs , no man can be found , But frighted with Fireballs , their heads turned round . From Pulpit to Pot They talk'd of a Plot , Till their Brains were inslav'd and each man turn'd Sot. But let us to Reason and Justice repair ; And this Popish Bugbear will fly into Air . 2 A Politic Statesman , of body unsound , Who once in a Tree with the Rabble set round ; Run Monarchy down with Fanatic Rage , And preach'd up Rebellion I' that credulous Age . He now is at work , With the Devil and Turk ; Pretending a Plot , under which he does Lurk , To humble the Miter , while he squints at the Crown ; Till fairly and squarely he pulls them both down . 3 He had found out and Instrument fit for the Devil ; Whose mind had been train'd up to all that was evil : His Fortune sunk low , and detested by many ; Kick't out at St. Omers , not pitty'd by any . Some Wisperers fix'd him Upon this design ; And with promis'd Reward did him countermine ; Though , his Tale was ill-told , it serv'd to give fire ; Dispis'd by the Wise , whil'st Fools did admire . 4 The next that appear'd , was a Foolhardy Knave , Who had ply'd the Highways , and to Vice was a Slave ; Being fed out of Basket in Prison forlorn ; No wonder that money should make him forsworn . He boldly dares swear , What men tremble to hear ; And learns a false Lesson without any fear . For when he is out , ther's one that's in's place : Relieves his invention , and quickens his Pace . 5 In a Country Prison another was found , Who had cheated his Lord of One Thousand Pound ; He was freed from's Fetters , to swear and inform , Which very courageously he did perform . To avoid future Strife , He take's away Life , To save poor Protestants from Popish Knife ; Which only has Edge to cut a Rogues Ears , For abusing the People with needless fears 6 Another starts up and tells a false Tale , Which strait he revoked his Courage being frail ; But to fortify one that needs his Aid , Being tempted with money which much does persuade He swore he knew all That contrived the fallen , Of one , who that day was seen near to White-Hall ; Where he by the Treasurers powerful Breath , More likely by far received his Death . 7 A Gown-man most grave with Fanatical from , With his scribbling wit does blow up this storm ; For Moth-eaten Records he worships the Devil , Being now lodg'd at Court he must become civil . He hunt's all about , And makes a great Rout , To find some Old Prophecy to help him out ; But his Friend that was hous'd with him at Fox-Hall , Being joyn'd with his master still strengthens 'em all . 8 Then com's a crack'd Merchant with his shallow Brain , Who first did led up this stigmatiz'd train ; He since is grown useless , his Skill being small , Yet at a dead lift , hee's still at their call . He has pestered the Press , In ridiculous dress In this scribbling Age he could not do less ; But to so little purpose as plainly appears With Pen he had as good fate picking his Ears . 9 To end with a Prayer as now 'tis my Lot , Confounded be Plotters , with their Popish Plo God bless and preserve our Gracious good King , That he may ne're feel the PRESBYTERS sting ; As they brought his Father With rage to the Block , So would they extirpate all the whole Stock : But with their false Plots I hope they will end , At Tyburn where th' Rabble will surely attend . FINIS . / 2 A BALLAD UPON THE POPISH PLOT Written by a Lady of Quality . Whither you will like my song or like it not , It is the downfall of the Popish Plot ; With Characters of Plotters here I sing , Who would destroy our good and gracious King ; Whom God preserve , and give us cause to hope His Foes will be rewarded with a Rope . To the TUNE of Packington's Pound . 1. SInce Counterfeit Plots has affected this Age , Being acted by Fools , and contriv'd by the Sage : In City , nor Suburbs , no man can be found , But frighted with Fireballs , their heads turned round . From Pulpit to Pot They talk'd of a Plot , Till their Brains were inslav'd and each man turn'd Sot. But let us to Reason and Justice repair ; And this Popish Bugbear will fly into Air . 2 A Politic Statesman , of body unsound , Who once in a Tree with the Rabble set round ; Run Monarchy down with Fanatic Rage , And preach'd up Rebellion I' that credulous Age . He now is at work , With the Devil and Turk ; Pretending a Plot , under which he does Lurk , To humble the Miter , while he squints at the Crown ; Till fairly and squarely he pulls them both down . 3 He had found out and Instrument fit for the Devil ; Whose mind had been train'd up to all that was evil : His Fortune sunk low , and detested by many ; Kick't out at St. Omers , not pitty'd by any . Some Wisperers fix'd him Upon this design ; And with promis'd Reward did him countermine ; Though , his Tale was ill-told , it serv'd to give fire ; Dispis'd by the Wise , whil'st Fools did admire . 4 The next that appear'd , was a Foolhardy Knave , Who had ply'd the Highways , and to Vice was a Slave ; Being fed out of Basket in Prison forlorn ; No wonder that money should make him forsworn . He boldly dares swear , What men tremble to hear ; And learns a false Lesson without any fear . For when he is out , ther's one that's in's place : Relieves his invention , and quickens his Pace . 5 In a Country Prison another was found , Who had cheated his Lord of One Thousand Pound ; He was freed from's Fetters , to swear and inform , Which very courageously he did perform . To avoid future Strife , He take's away Life , To save poor Protestants from Popish Knife ; Which only has Edge to cut a Rogues Ears , For abusing the People with needless fears 6 Another starts up and tells a false Tale , Which strait he revoked his Courage being frail ; But to fortify one that needs his Aid , Being tempted with money which much does persuade He swore he knew all That contrived the fallen , Of one , who that day was seen near to White-Hall ; Where he by the Treasurers powerful Breath , More likely by far received his Death . 7 A Gown-man most grave with Fanatical from , With his scribbling wit does blow up this storm ; For Moth-eaten Records he worships the Devil , Being now lodg'd at Court he must become civil . He hunt's all about , And makes a great Rout , To find some Old Prophecy to help him out ; But his Friend that was hous'd with him at Fox-Hall , Being joyn'd with his master still strengthens 'em all . 8 Then com's a crack'd Merchant with his shallow Brain , Who first did led up this stigmatiz'd train ; He since is grown useless , his Skill being small , Yet at a dead lift , hee's still at their call . He has pestered the Press , In ridiculous dress In this scribbling Age he could not do less ; But to so little purpose as plainly appears With Pen he had as good fate picking his Ears . 9 To end with a Prayer as now 'tis my Lot , Confounded be Plotters , with their Popish Plo God bless and preserve our Gracious good King , That he may ne're feel the PRESBYTERS sting ; As they brought his Father With rage to the Block , So would they extirpate all the whole Stock : But with their false Plots I hope they will end , At Tyburn where th' Rabble will surely attend . FINIS . 