BALLAD . The Third Part , To the same Tune . Written by a Lady of Quality . The Plot is vanish'd like a bashful Sprite , Which with false Flashes Fools could only fright . The Wise ( whose clearer Souls can penetrate ) Find Shadows drawn before Intrigues of State . God bless our King , the Church , and Nation too , Whilst perjur'd Villains have what is their endue . To the TUNE of Packington's Pound . 1. THE Presbyter has been so active of late To twist himself into the Mysteries of State , Giving birth to a Plot to amuse the dark World , Till into confusion three Kingdoms are hurl'd ; It is so long since He murder'd his Prince , That the unwary Rabble he hope's to convince , With Jingling words that bear little Sense , Deluding them with Religious Pretence . 2. Their Scribbling Poet is such a dull Sot , To blame the poor Devil for hatching the Plot , The Murder o' th' King , with many things more , He falsely would put on the Jesuits score : When all that have Eyes , Be they foolish or wise , May see the sly Presbyter through his disguise . Their Brothers in Scotland has made it well known By Murdering their Bishop what sins are their own . 3. The Poet , whose Senses are somewhat decay'd , Takes Joan for a Jesuit in Masquerade : His Muse ran so fast she never look'd behind her , Or else to a Woman she would have prov'd kinder . His Fury's so hight To hunt out the Plot , That fain he would find it where it is not ; Although I've expos'd it to all that are wise , He has stifled his Reason and blinded his Eyes . 4. And old Ignis Fatuus , who leads men astray , And leaves them i' th' Ditch , but still keeps his way , In politic Head first framed this Plot , From whence it descended to Presbyter Scot , Who quickly took fire , And as soon did expire , Having Grave Factious Fools their Zeal to admire ; Who for the same Cause would freely fly out , But Plotting's more safe to bring it about . 5. Here's one for Religion is ready to fight , That believes not in Christ , yet swears he's i' that righ If our English Church ( as he says , ) be a Whore , We're sure 'twas Jack Presbyter did her deflower ; He'd fain pull her down , As well as the Crown . And prostitute her to every dull Clown ; To bring in Religion that's fit for the Rabble , While Atheism serves himself that's more able . 6. A Pestilent Peer of a levelling Spirit , Who only the Sins of his Sire does inherit ; With and unsteady mind , and Chimerical brain , Which his broken Fortune does weakly sustain , He Lodg'd i' th' City Like Alderman brave , Being fed up with Faction , to which he's a slave ; He never durst fight , but once for his Whore , Which his feeble courage attempted no more . 7. Another , with Preaching and Praying wore out , Inspir'd by th' Covenant is grown very stout ; Th' Old Cause to revive it is his design , Though the Fabric of Monarchy he undermine : He tortur'd his Pate , Both early and late , I' th' Tower , where this mischief he hope to create ; But to Country dwelling he now does retire , To Preach to Domestics while they do admire . 8. Another , with Head both empty and light , For the good Old Cause is willing to fight ; I' th' Choice of fit Members for th' next Parliament , He spit out his Zeal to the Rabbles content , While his Wife in great State Chosen a Duke for her Mate , For whose sake a Combustion he needs would create ; For since his Indulgence allows her a Friend , He'd make him as great as his wish can extend . 9. There's One , whose fierce Courage is fal'n to decay ( At Geneva inspir'd , ) he's much led away ; He would set up a Cypher instead of a King : From Presbyter Zeal such folly does spring . He once did betray , A whole Town in a day ; And since did at Sea fly fairly away : He had better spin out the rest of his Thread , In making Pot-Guns , which disturb not his Head 10. Some others , of Fortune's both dispersed and low , With big-swelling Titles do's make a great show ; A flexible Prince they would willingly have , That to Presbyter Subject's should be a mere slave ; They'd set him on's Throne , To tumble him down , They scorn to submit to Sceptre and Crown ; And into confusion , or Commonwealth turn , A People that hastens to be undone . 11. If such busy Heads that would us confound , Were all advanc'd high , or plac'd underground ; We'd honour our King , and live at our ease , And make the dull Presbyter do what we please : Who has cheated our Eyes , With borrow'd disguise , Till of all our Reason they'd taken Excise ; But let's from their slavery strive to be free , And no People can e're be so happy as we . FINIS . This Ballad Sir William Waller seiz'd among many other Trea - sonable and Seditious Pamphlets in the House of one Turner a Popish Bookseller in Holborn , being ready Printed , on purpose to be spread abroad upon the Discovery of the pretended Presbyte - rian Plot , to show forth the Innocency of the Papists , and to credit - ate a Belief in the Vulgar of the Guiltiness of the Presbyterians , that thereby they might accomplish their wicked Designs , and under this Notion murder his Sacred Majesty , and altar and change the Government and Religion , and to subjugate the whole Protestant Church to the See of Rome . BALLAD . The Third Part , To the same Tune . Written by a Lady of Quality . The Plot is vanish'd like a bashful Sprite , Which with false Flashes Fools could only fright . The Wise ( whose clearer Souls can penetrate ) Find Shadows drawn before Intrigues of State . God bless our King , the Church , and Nation too , Whilst perjur'd Villains have what is their endue . To the TUNE of Packington's Pound . 1. THE Presbyter has been so active of late To twist himself into the Mysteries of State , Giving birth to a Plot to amuse the dark World , Till into confusion three Kingdoms are hurl'd ; It is so long since He murder'd his Prince , That the unwary Rabble he hope's to convince , With Jingling words that bear little Sense , Deluding them with Religious Pretence . 2. Their Scribbling Poet is such a dull Sot , To blame the poor Devil for hatching the Plot , The Murder o' th' King , with many things more , He falsely would put on the Jesuits score : When all that have Eyes , Be they foolish or wise , May see the sly Presbyter through his disguise . Their Brothers in Scotland has made it well known By Murdering their Bishop what sins are their own . 3. The Poet , whose Senses are somewhat decay'd , Takes Joan for a Jesuit in Masquerade : His Muse ran so fast she never look'd behind her , Or else to a Woman she would have prov'd kinder . His Fury's so hight To hunt out the Plot , That fain he would find it where it is not ; Although I've expos'd it to all that are wise , He has stifled his Reason and blinded his Eyes . 4. And old Ignis Fatuus , who leads men astray , And leaves them i' th' Ditch , but still keeps his way , In politic Head first framed this Plot , From whence it descended to Presbyter Scot , Who quickly took fire , And as soon did expire , Having Grave Factious Fools their Zeal to admire ; Who for the same Cause would freely fly out , But Plotting's more safe to bring it about . 5. Here's one for Religion is ready to fight , That believes not in Christ , yet swears he's i' that righ If our English Church ( as he says , ) be a Whore , We're sure 'twas Jack Presbyter did her deflower ; He'd fain pull her down , As well as the Crown . And prostitute her to every dull Clown ; To bring in Religion that's fit for the Rabble , While Atheism serves himself that's more able . 6. A Pestilent Peer of a levelling Spirit , Who only the Sins of his Sire does inherit ; With and unsteady mind , and Chimerical brain , Which his broken Fortune does weakly sustain , He Lodg'd i' th' City Like Alderman brave , Being fed up with Faction , to which he's a slave ; He never durst fight , but once for his Whore , Which his feeble courage attempted no more . 7. Another , with Preaching and Praying wore out , Inspir'd by th' Covenant is grown very stout ; Th' Old Cause to revive it is his design , Though the Fabric of Monarchy he undermine : He tortur'd his Pate , Both early and late , I' th' Tower , where this mischief he hope to create ; But to Country dwelling he now does retire , To Preach to Domestics while they do admire . 8. Another , with Head both empty and light , For the good Old Cause is willing to fight ; I' th' Choice of fit Members for th' next Parliament , He spit out his Zeal to the Rabbles content , While his Wife in great State Chosen a Duke for her Mate , For whose sake a Combustion he needs would create ; For since his Indulgence allows her a Friend , He'd make him as great as his wish can extend . 9. There's One , whose fierce Courage is fal'n to decay ( At Geneva inspir'd , ) he's much led away ; He would set up a Cypher instead of a King : From Presbyter Zeal such folly does spring . He once did betray , A whole Town in a day ; And since did at Sea fly fairly away : He had better spin out the rest of his Thread , In making Pot-Guns , which disturb not his Head 10. Some others , of Fortune's both dispersed and low , With big-swelling Titles do's make a great show ; A flexible Prince they would willingly have , That to Presbyter Subject's should be a mere slave ; They'd set him on's Throne , To tumble him down , They scorn to submit to Sceptre and Crown ; And into confusion , or Commonwealth turn , A People that hastens to be undone . 11. If such busy Heads that would us confound , Were all advanc'd high , or plac'd underground ; We'd honour our King , and live at our ease , And make the dull Presbyter do what we please : Who has cheated our Eyes , With borrow'd disguise , Till of all our Reason they'd taken Excise ; But let's from their slavery strive to be free , And no People can e're be so happy as we . FINIS . This Ballad Sir William Waller seiz'd among many other Trea - sonable and Seditious Pamphlets in the House of one Turner a Popish Bookseller in Holborn , being ready Printed , on purpose to be spread abroad upon the Discovery of the pretended Presbyte - rian Plot , to show forth the Innocency of the Papists , and to credit - ate a Belief in the Vulgar of the Guiltiness of the Presbyterians , that thereby they might accomplish their wicked Designs , and under this Notion murder his Sacred Majesty , and altar and change the Government and Religion , and to subjugate the whole Protestant Church to the See of Rome . 