A Ballad upon the Popish Plot . Written by a Lady of Quality . Whither you will like my Song , or like it not , It is the downfall of the Popish Plo With Characters of Plotters here I sing , Who would destroy our good and gracious King : Whom God preserve , and give us cause to hope His Foes will be rewarded with a Rope . To the Tune of Packington's Pound . 1. SInce Counterfeit Plots has affected this Age , Being acted by Fools , and contriv'd by the Sage : In City , nor Suburbs , no man can be found , But frighted with Fireballs , their heads turned round . From Pulpit to Pot They talk'd of a Plot , Till their Brains were inslav'd , and each man turn'd So But let us to Reason and Justice repair , And this Popish Bugbear will fly into Air . 2. A Politic Statesman , of Body unsound , Who once in a Tree with the Rabble set round , Run Monarchy down with Fanatic Rage , And preach'd up Rebellion i' that credulous Age ; He now is at work , With the Devil and Turk , Pretending a Plot , under which he does Lurk , To humble the Mitre , while he squints at the Crown ; Till fairly and squarely he pulls them both down . 3. He had found out and Instrument fit for the Devil , Whose mind had been train'd up to all that was Evil : His Fortune sunk low , and detested by many ; Kick't out at St. Omers , not pitty'd by any . Some Whisperers fix'd him Upon this design , And with promis'd Reward did him countermine : Though his Tale was ill told , it serv'd to give fire ; Despis'd by the Wise , while Fools did admire . 4. The next that appear'd , was a Foolhardy Knave , Who had ply'd the Highways , and to Vice was a Slave ; Being fed out of Basket in Prison forlorn , No wonder that Money should make him forsworn . He boldly dares swear , What men tremble to hear ; And learns a false Lesson without any fear : For when he is out , there's one that's in 's place , Relieves his Invention , and quickens his Pace . 5. In a Country Prison another was found , Who had cheated his Lord of One Thousand Pound ; He was freed from's Fetters , to swear and inform , Which very courageously he did perform . To avoid future Strife , He takes away Life , To save poor Protestants from Popish Knife ; Which only has Edge to cut a Rogues Ears , For abusing the People with needless fears . 6. Another starts up and tells a false Tale , Which straight he revoked , his Courage being frail : But to fortify one that needs his Aid , Being tempted with Money , which much does persuade ; He swore he knew all That contrived the fallen , Of one , who that day was seen near to Whitehall : Where he by the Treasurer's powerful Breath , More likely by far received his Death . 7. A Gown-man most grave with Fanatical from , With his scribbling wit does blow up this storm ; For Moth-eaten Records he worships the Devil , Being now lodg'd at Court he must become civil . He hunt's all about . And makes a great Rout , To find some Old Prophecy to help him ou But his Friend that was hous'd with him at Fox-hall , Being joyn'd with his Master , still strengthens 'em all . 8. Then comes a crack'd Merchant with his shallow Brain , Who first did led up this stigmatiz'd Train : He since is grown useless , his Skill being small , Yet at a dead lift , he's still at their call . He has pester'd the Press , In ridiculous dress , In this scribbling Age he could not do less : But to so little purpose as plainly appears , With Pen he had as good sat picking his Ears . 9. To end with a Prayer , as now 'tis my Lot , Confounded be Plotters , with their Popish Plo God bless and preserve our Gracious good King , That he may ne'er feel the PRESBYTERS sting : As they brought his Father With rage to the Block , So would they extirpate all the whole Stock : But with their false Plots I hope they will end At Tyburn , where th' Rabble will surely attend . FINIS . A Ballad upon the Popish Plot . Written by a Lady of Quality . Whither you will like my Song , or like it not , It is the downfall of the Popish Plo With Characters of Plotters here I sing , Who would destroy our good and gracious King : Whom God preserve , and give us cause to hope His Foes will be rewarded with a Rope . To the Tune of Packington's Pound . 1. SInce Counterfeit Plots has affected this Age , Being acted by Fools , and contriv'd by the Sage : In City , nor Suburbs , no man can be found , But frighted with Fireballs , their heads turned round . From Pulpit to Pot They talk'd of a Plot , Till their Brains were inslav'd , and each man turn'd So But let us to Reason and Justice repair , And this Popish Bugbear will fly into Air . 2. A Politic Statesman , of Body unsound , Who once in a Tree with the Rabble set round , Run Monarchy down with Fanatic Rage , And preach'd up Rebellion i' that credulous Age ; He now is at work , With the Devil and Turk , Pretending a Plot , under which he does Lurk , To humble the Mitre , while he squints at the Crown ; Till fairly and squarely he pulls them both down . 3. He had found out and Instrument fit for the Devil , Whose mind had been train'd up to all that was Evil : His Fortune sunk low , and detested by many ; Kick't out at St. Omers , not pitty'd by any . Some Whisperers fix'd him Upon this design , And with promis'd Reward did him countermine : Though his Tale was ill told , it serv'd to give fire ; Despis'd by the Wise , while Fools did admire . 4. The next that appear'd , was a Foolhardy Knave , Who had ply'd the Highways , and to Vice was a Slave ; Being fed out of Basket in Prison forlorn , No wonder that Money should make him forsworn . He boldly dares swear , What men tremble to hear ; And learns a false Lesson without any fear : For when he is out , there's one that's in 's place , Relieves his Invention , and quickens his Pace . 5. In a Country Prison another was found , Who had cheated his Lord of One Thousand Pound ; He was freed from's Fetters , to swear and inform , Which very courageously he did perform . To avoid future Strife , He takes away Life , To save poor Protestants from Popish Knife ; Which only has Edge to cut a Rogues Ears , For abusing the People with needless fears . 6. Another starts up and tells a false Tale , Which straight he revoked , his Courage being frail : But to fortify one that needs his Aid , Being tempted with Money , which much does persuade ; He swore he knew all That contrived the fallen , Of one , who that day was seen near to Whitehall : Where he by the Treasurer's powerful Breath , More likely by far received his Death . 7. A Gown-man most grave with Fanatical from , With his scribbling wit does blow up this storm ; For Moth-eaten Records he worships the Devil , Being now lodg'd at Court he must become civil . He hunt's all about . And makes a great Rout , To find some Old Prophecy to help him ou But his Friend that was hous'd with him at Fox-hall , Being joyn'd with his Master , still strengthens 'em all . 8. Then comes a crack'd Merchant with his shallow Brain , Who first did led up this stigmatiz'd Train : He since is grown useless , his Skill being small , Yet at a dead lift , he's still at their call . He has pester'd the Press , In ridiculous dress , In this scribbling Age he could not do less : But to so little purpose as plainly appears , With Pen he had as good sat picking his Ears . 9. To end with a Prayer , as now 'tis my Lot , Confounded be Plotters , with their Popish Plo God bless and preserve our Gracious good King , That he may ne'er feel the PRESBYTERS sting : As they brought his Father With rage to the Block , So would they extirpate all the whole Stock : But with their false Plots I hope they will end At Tyburn , where th' Rabble will surely attend . FINIS . 