The BUNTER's WEDDING . GOO people attend , I'll discover , A wedding that happen'd of late , [ I ] cannot tell why we should smother , The weddings of poor more than great , [ 'Twixt ] Ben of the Borough , so pretty , [ Who carr ] ies a basket 'tis said , [ And daint ] ty plump Kent-street fair Kitty , [ A coney ] wool cutter by trade . [ The g ] vests were all quickly invited , [ Ben oh ] rder'd the dinner by noon , [ And ] Kitty was highly delighted , [ They ] obey'd the glad summons so soon ; [ And oh ] x cheek was order'd for dinner , With plenty of porter and gin , Ben swore on the oath of a sinner , Nothing should be wanting in him . Joe the sandman and Bessy the bunter , We hear from St [ . ] Gile's did prance , Dick the fiddler and Sally the mumper , Brought Levi the Jew for to dance . Tom the chanter he quickly was present , And squinting black Molly likewise , And Billy the dustman quite pleasant , With Nell with no nose and before eyes . Ned the drover was also invited , Unto this gay wedding to come , From Smithfield he posted delighted , Before that the market was done ; And Fanny the pretty matchmaker , A sister to Bunting Bess , She wished the devil might take her , If she was not one of the guests , Dolly the ragwoman's daughter , From Tyburn road she did stride , And Jenny the quilter came after . Whose nose it stood all of one side , There was Roger the chimney sweeper , No foot he would gather that day But because he would look the completer , His foot bad and brush threw away . There was bandy-legg'd sheep's head Susan We hear from Field lane did high And draggle tail Pat with no shoes on , Who pins and laces does cry ; Ralph the the grinder he set by his barrow . So soon as he herd of the news , And swore he would be there tomorrow , Altho' he'd no heels to his shoes . Sam the grubber he having had warning His wallet and broom down did lay , And early attended next morning , The bride for to give away , And Peggy the mop yarn spinner , Her cards and her wheels set aside , And swore as she was a sinner , She'd go and attire the bride , Nan the tub-woman out of Whitechapel , Was also invited to go , And as she was kin to the couple , She swore she the stocking would throw . So having all gather'd together , As they appointed to meet , And being all birds of a feather , They presently flock [ ' ] worser to the fleet , But when at Fleet-bridge they arrived . The bridegroom was handing his bride , The barkers they all to them drived , Do you want a parson ? they cry'd ; But as they down Fleet-ditch did prance sir What house shall we go to ? says Ben ; Then Kitty in raptures made answer , Let [ ' ] s go to the Hand and the Pen . Then into the house they did bundle , The landlady show [ ' ] worser them a room , The landlord roar'd out like thunder , The parson shall wait on you soon ; Then in came so eager to fasten , He stayed not to fasten his hose , A fat belly'd ruddy-fac'd painted , That brandy had painted his nose . But before he this couple did fasten , He looked all round on the men , My fee's half a crown , says the parson , I freely will give it says Ben ; Then Hymen he presently follow'd , And the happy knot being ty'd , The guests they hooped and hollow'd , All joys to the bridegroom and bride . Like malt horses home they all pranced , The bride she look'd not like the same , And thus thro' the city they danced , But when to the Borough they came ; The bride to look buxom endeavour [ ' ] worser , The bridegroom as brisk as and eel , With their marrow bones and cleavers , The butchers they rung 'em a peal . And as they were homeward advancing , A dancing and singing of songs , The rough music met them all prancing , With frying pans , shovels and tongue's ; Tin cannisters , salt boxes plenty . With trotter bones beatrice by the boys , And they being most hollow and empty , They made a most racketing noise . Bowls , gridirons platters and ladles And pokers tin kettles did bruise The noise none to bear it were able The warming pan beatrice with old shoes ; such a rat [ l ] ing racketing uproar Had you but have herd it no doubt All hell was broke lose you'd have swore And the devils running about . The mob they all hollow'd and shouted The streets as they pass'd along , The people to see how they scouted , Together in clusters did throng ; All the rattling they made they were able , And they were ushered in , But ere they all sat down to table , They each had a glass of old gin . Dinner being decently ended , The table was cleared with speed , And thus they to be merry intended ; So straight did to dancing proceed ; But Harry the nightman so jolly , With madness he almost cry'd , And all the night sat melancholy , For he had a mind to the bride , Bob the brickmaker now being merry , Tho' to foot it first he was loath , He told them he'd tip them Bob Perry , But they swore they [ ' ] worser have Newgate broth , Tom the chanter he trip thom a trilly , That never before was in print , While the dustman they call smutty Billy , Gnaw'd the head of black Moll that did squint Jack the coal heaver thought himself slighted , They carried the rig on so quiet , And swore as he was not invited , He'd go there and kick up a riot ; Then hectoring , bouncing , and swearing , So boldly he enter'd the house , But when he saw Joey the sandman . The cull was as still as a mouse . Bess the bunter sung Murdock O'Blaney , The chorus it made the house ring , Nell with no nose cry'd you'll shame me If such bawdy songs you do sing ; Drunken Levi the Jew was abuseful And would have god trimm'd as this said ; Had not his pomatum been useful As Kitty the bride was a maid . Joe the sandman then talk'd of a Nailor ; Away the coal heaver did slink , Quite faint hearted worse than a taylor ; Lest Joey should give him a clink ; But being all god drunk together , Ben pray'd them all night for to stay ; So coupled them in his long feathers , And parted good friends the next day . Printed by J. Pitts , Great St , Andrew Street , Seven Dials . The BUNTER's WEDDING . GOO people attend , I'll discover , A wedding that happen'd of late , [ I ] cannot tell why we should smother , The weddings of poor more than great , [ 'Twixt ] Ben of the Borough , so pretty , [ Who carr ] ies a basket 'tis said , [ And daint ] ty plump Kent-street fair Kitty , [ A coney ] wool cutter by trade . [ The g ] vests were all quickly invited , [ Ben oh ] rder'd the dinner by noon , [ And ] Kitty was highly delighted , [ They ] obey'd the glad summons so soon ; [ And oh ] x cheek was order'd for dinner , With plenty of porter and gin , Ben swore on the oath of a sinner , Nothing should be wanting in him . Joe the sandman and Bessy the bunter , We hear from St [ . ] Gile's did prance , Dick the fiddler and Sally the mumper , Brought Levi the Jew for to dance . Tom the chanter he quickly was present , And squinting black Molly likewise , And Billy the dustman quite pleasant , With Nell with no nose and before eyes . Ned the drover was also invited , Unto this gay wedding to come , From Smithfield he posted delighted , Before that the market was done ; And Fanny the pretty matchmaker , A sister to Bunting Bess , She wished the devil might take her , If she was not one of the guests , Dolly the ragwoman's daughter , From Tyburn road she did stride , And Jenny the quilter came after . Whose nose it stood all of one side , There was Roger the chimney sweeper , No foot he would gather that day But because he would look the completer , His foot bad and brush threw away . There was bandy-legg'd sheep's head Susan We hear from Field lane did high And draggle tail Pat with no shoes on , Who pins and laces does cry ; Ralph the the grinder he set by his barrow . So soon as he herd of the news , And swore he would be there tomorrow , Altho' he'd no heels to his shoes . Sam the grubber he having had warning His wallet and broom down did lay , And early attended next morning , The bride for to give away , And Peggy the mop yarn spinner , Her cards and her wheels set aside , And swore as she was a sinner , She'd go and attire the bride , Nan the tub-woman out of Whitechapel , Was also invited to go , And as she was kin to the couple , She swore she the stocking would throw . So having all gather'd together , As they appointed to meet , And being all birds of a feather , They presently flock [ ' ] worser to the fleet , But when at Fleet-bridge they arrived . The bridegroom was handing his bride , The barkers they all to them drived , Do you want a parson ? they cry'd ; But as they down Fleet-ditch did prance sir What house shall we go to ? says Ben ; Then Kitty in raptures made answer , Let [ ' ] s go to the Hand and the Pen . Then into the house they did bundle , The landlady show [ ' ] worser them a room , The landlord roar'd out like thunder , The parson shall wait on you soon ; Then in came so eager to fasten , He stayed not to fasten his hose , A fat belly'd ruddy-fac'd painted , That brandy had painted his nose . But before he this couple did fasten , He looked all round on the men , My fee's half a crown , says the parson , I freely will give it says Ben ; Then Hymen he presently follow'd , And the happy knot being ty'd , The guests they hooped and hollow'd , All joys to the bridegroom and bride . Like malt horses home they all pranced , The bride she look'd not like the same , And thus thro' the city they danced , But when to the Borough they came ; The bride to look buxom endeavour [ ' ] worser , The bridegroom as brisk as and eel , With their marrow bones and cleavers , The butchers they rung 'em a peal . And as they were homeward advancing , A dancing and singing of songs , The rough music met them all prancing , With frying pans , shovels and tongue's ; Tin cannisters , salt boxes plenty . With trotter bones beatrice by the boys , And they being most hollow and empty , They made a most racketing noise . Bowls , gridirons platters and ladles And pokers tin kettles did bruise The noise none to bear it were able The warming pan beatrice with old shoes ; such a rat [ l ] ing racketing uproar Had you but have herd it no doubt All hell was broke lose you'd have swore And the devils running about . The mob they all hollow'd and shouted The streets as they pass'd along , The people to see how they scouted , Together in clusters did throng ; All the rattling they made they were able , And they were ushered in , But ere they all sat down to table , They each had a glass of old gin . Dinner being decently ended , The table was cleared with speed , And thus they to be merry intended ; So straight did to dancing proceed ; But Harry the nightman so jolly , With madness he almost cry'd , And all the night sat melancholy , For he had a mind to the bride , Bob the brickmaker now being merry , Tho' to foot it first he was loath , He told them he'd tip them Bob Perry , But they swore they [ ' ] worser have Newgate broth , Tom the chanter he trip thom a trilly , That never before was in print , While the dustman they call smutty Billy , Gnaw'd the head of black Moll that did squint Jack the coal heaver thought himself slighted , They carried the rig on so quiet , And swore as he was not invited , He'd go there and kick up a riot ; Then hectoring , bouncing , and swearing , So boldly he enter'd the house , But when he saw Joey the sandman . The cull was as still as a mouse . Bess the bunter sung Murdock O'Blaney , The chorus it made the house ring , Nell with no nose cry'd you'll shame me If such bawdy songs you do sing ; Drunken Levi the Jew was abuseful And would have god trimm'd as this said ; Had not his pomatum been useful As Kitty the bride was a maid . Joe the sandman then talk'd of a Nailor ; Away the coal heaver did slink , Quite faint hearted worse than a taylor ; Lest Joey should give him a clink ; But being all god drunk together , Ben pray'd them all night for to stay ; So coupled them in his long feathers , And parted good friends the next day . Printed by J. Pitts , Great St , Andrew Street , Seven Dials . 