A A BALLAD . The Third Part , To the same Tune . Written by a Lady of Quality . The Plot is vanish'd like to a bashful Sprite , Which with false flashes , Fools could only fright . The wise , ( whose clearer Souls can penetrate , ) Find's shadows drawn before Intrigues of State . God bless our King , the Church , and Nation too , Whil'st perjur'd Villains have what is their endue . To the TUNE of Packington's Pound . 1. THe Presbyter ha's been so active of late , To twist himself into the Mysteries of State , Giving birth to a Plot to amuse the dark world 'Til into Confusion three Kingdom's are hurl'd ; It is so long since , He Murther'd his Prince , That the unwary Rabble he hope's to convince , With Jingling words that bears little sense , Deluding them with Religious pretence . 2. Their scribbling Poet is such a dull Sot , To blame the poor Devil for hatching the Plot ; The Mutther o' th' King , with many things more , He falsely would put on the Jesuits score : When all that have Eyes , Be they foolish , or wise , May see the sly Presbyter through his disguise ; Their brothers in Scotland has made it well known , By Murdering their Bishop , what sins are their own . 3. The Poet , whose senses are somewhat decay'd , Takes Joan for a Jesuit in Masquerade ; His Muse ran so fast , she ne're look'd behind her , Or else to a Woman she would have prov'd kinder . His fury's so hight , To Hunt out the Plot , That fain he would find it where it is not , Although I've expos'd it to all that are wise , He has stifled his Reason , and blinded his Eyes . 4. And old Ignis fatuus , who leads men astray , And leaves them i' that Ditch , but still keep's his way , In politic head first framed this Plot , From whence it descended to Presbyter Scot , Who quickly took Fire , And as soon did expire , Having grave factious fools their zeal to admire ; Who for the same cause would freely fly out , But Plotting's more safer to bring it about . 5. Here's one for Religion is ready to fight , That believes not in Christ , yet swear's he's i' that righ If our English Church ( as he says , ) be a Whore , We're sure 'twas Jack Presbyter did her deflower ; He'd fain pull her down , As well as the Crown , And prostitute her to every dull Clown ; To bring in Religion that's fit for the Rabble , While Atheism serves himself that's more able . 6. A Pestilent Peer of a levelling Spirit , Who only the Sins of his Sire does inherit ; With and unsteady mind , and Chimerical brain , Which his broken Fortune does weakly sustain , He Lodg'd i' th' City Like Alderman brave , Being fed up with faction to which he's a slave ; He never durst fight , but once for his Whore , Which his feeble courage attempted no more . 7. Another , with Preaching and Praying wore out , Inspir'd by th' Covenant is grown very stout ; Th' old cause to revive it is his design , Though the fabric of Monarchy he undermine : He tortur'd his Pate , Both early and late , I' th' Tower , where this mischief he hope to create ; But to Country dwelling he now does retire , To Preach to Domestics while they do admire . 8. Another , with head both empty and light , For the good Old cause is willing to Fight ; I' th' Choice of fit members for th' next Parliament , He spit out his zeal to the Rabbles content , [ While his Wife in great State ] Chosen a Duke for her Mate , For whose sake a Combustion he needs would create For since his indulgence allows her a Friend , He'd make him as great as his wish can extend . 9. There's one , whose fierce courage is fal'n to decay ( At Geneva inspir'd , ) he's much led away ; He would set up a Cypher instead of a King : From Presbyter zeal such folly does spring . He once did betray , A whole Town in a day ; And since did at Sea fly fairly away : He had better spin out the rest of his Thread , In making Pot-Guns , which disturb not his Head. 10. Some others , of Fortune's both dispersed and Low , With big-swelling Titles do's make a great show ; A flexible Prince they would willingly have , That to Presbyter Subject's should be a mere slave ; They'd set him on's Throne , To tumble him down , They scorn to submit to Sceptre and Crown ; And into confusion , or Commonwealth turn , A People that hastens to be undone . 11. If such busy heads that would us confound , Were all advanc'd high , or plac [ ' ] worser underground ; We'd honour our King , and live at our ease , And make the dull Presbyter do what we please : Who has cheated our Eyes , With borrow'd disguise , Till of all our Reason they'd taken Excise ; But let's from their slavery strive to be free , And no People can er'e be so happy as we . FINIS . A A BALLAD . The Third Part , To the same Tune . Written by a Lady of Quality . The Plot is vanish'd like to a bashful Sprite , Which with false flashes , Fools could only fright . The wise , ( whose clearer Souls can penetrate , ) Find's shadows drawn before Intrigues of State . God bless our King , the Church , and Nation too , Whil'st perjur'd Villains have what is their endue . To the TUNE of Packington's Pound . 1. THe Presbyter ha's been so active of late , To twist himself into the Mysteries of State , Giving birth to a Plot to amuse the dark world 'Til into Confusion three Kingdom's are hurl'd ; It is so long since , He Murther'd his Prince , That the unwary Rabble he hope's to convince , With Jingling words that bears little sense , Deluding them with Religious pretence . 2. Their scribbling Poet is such a dull Sot , To blame the poor Devil for hatching the Plot ; The Mutther o' th' King , with many things more , He falsely would put on the Jesuits score : When all that have Eyes , Be they foolish , or wise , May see the sly Presbyter through his disguise ; Their brothers in Scotland has made it well known , By Murdering their Bishop , what sins are their own . 3. The Poet , whose senses are somewhat decay'd , Takes Joan for a Jesuit in Masquerade ; His Muse ran so fast , she ne're look'd behind her , Or else to a Woman she would have prov'd kinder . His fury's so hight , To Hunt out the Plot , That fain he would find it where it is not , Although I've expos'd it to all that are wise , He has stifled his Reason , and blinded his Eyes . 4. And old Ignis fatuus , who leads men astray , And leaves them i' that Ditch , but still keep's his way , In politic head first framed this Plot , From whence it descended to Presbyter Scot , Who quickly took Fire , And as soon did expire , Having grave factious fools their zeal to admire ; Who for the same cause would freely fly out , But Plotting's more safer to bring it about . 5. Here's one for Religion is ready to fight , That believes not in Christ , yet swear's he's i' that righ If our English Church ( as he says , ) be a Whore , We're sure 'twas Jack Presbyter did her deflower ; He'd fain pull her down , As well as the Crown , And prostitute her to every dull Clown ; To bring in Religion that's fit for the Rabble , While Atheism serves himself that's more able . 6. A Pestilent Peer of a levelling Spirit , Who only the Sins of his Sire does inherit ; With and unsteady mind , and Chimerical brain , Which his broken Fortune does weakly sustain , He Lodg'd i' th' City Like Alderman brave , Being fed up with faction to which he's a slave ; He never durst fight , but once for his Whore , Which his feeble courage attempted no more . 7. Another , with Preaching and Praying wore out , Inspir'd by th' Covenant is grown very stout ; Th' old cause to revive it is his design , Though the fabric of Monarchy he undermine : He tortur'd his Pate , Both early and late , I' th' Tower , where this mischief he hope to create ; But to Country dwelling he now does retire , To Preach to Domestics while they do admire . 8. Another , with head both empty and light , For the good Old cause is willing to Fight ; I' th' Choice of fit members for th' next Parliament , He spit out his zeal to the Rabbles content , [ While his Wife in great State ] Chosen a Duke for her Mate , For whose sake a Combustion he needs would create For since his indulgence allows her a Friend , He'd make him as great as his wish can extend . 9. There's one , whose fierce courage is fal'n to decay ( At Geneva inspir'd , ) he's much led away ; He would set up a Cypher instead of a King : From Presbyter zeal such folly does spring . He once did betray , A whole Town in a day ; And since did at Sea fly fairly away : He had better spin out the rest of his Thread , In making Pot-Guns , which disturb not his Head. 10. Some others , of Fortune's both dispersed and Low , With big-swelling Titles do's make a great show ; A flexible Prince they would willingly have , That to Presbyter Subject's should be a mere slave ; They'd set him on's Throne , To tumble him down , They scorn to submit to Sceptre and Crown ; And into confusion , or Commonwealth turn , A People that hastens to be undone . 11. If such busy heads that would us confound , Were all advanc'd high , or plac [ ' ] worser underground ; We'd honour our King , and live at our ease , And make the dull Presbyter do what we please : Who has cheated our Eyes , With borrow'd disguise , Till of all our Reason they'd taken Excise ; But let's from their slavery strive to be free , And no People can er'e be so happy as we . FINIS . 