The three Worthy Butchers of the North . I weep , I wail , and travel much in pain ; Now all my youthful days are spent , they'l never come again : Once I was a Man , but now alas am none , For all my Companions are from me fled , and gone , To a pleasant New Tune . DId you never hear of worthy Butchers three ? And how they spent their days in mirth and jollity r There was Kitson , Wilson , and Johnson , mark me what I say , They took three hundred pounds worth of Goods upon a day . When as the day of payment began for to draw near , Their money to their Creditors intended for to bear ; And riding throw Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a jig . With a heigh down , down , with a down derry dee , God bless all true men out of thieves Company ; Riding then up Blankny-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts said Johnson , I hear a woman cry , Oh help , help , help , Oh help , or else I die , Oh help me some good Christians , for my torments they draw nigh Oh hark , Oh hark , said Johnson , I hear a woman cry , Sure I came of a woman , and shall I see her die ? Don't ride on neighbour Johnson , now Kitson he did say , For that is some lewd woman , will cast us all away : If you had but rid on this way as oft as we have done , You would hove herd this cry before , and now let us be gone Then Johnson whipped into the wood with all might and main , Whereas he found the woman with Cords fast ty'd in twain With Cords fast ty'd in twain , and hand and [ f ] oot was bound And found her there stark naked , with her hair pin'd to the ground . Alas , said Johnson , what man has us'd thee so ? He came not of a woman , that would work a woman's woe : Hast thou no lewd Company ? now Johnson he did say , For here we are come to save thy life , thou mayest cast us all away . No I have no lewd Company , the woman she did say , Three Ruffians came riding by , and rob [ ' ] worser me by the way : They took my Clooths from me , and hand and foot me bound And left me here in woeful sort , with my hair pin'd on the ground . So Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might & main And presently the woman's Cords , Johnson he cut in twain : A Shirt out of his Cloak-bag presently plucked he , And put it on the woman to cover her secrecy . I have neither wife nor Children , Johnson he did say , And thou shalt be Lady of all till death take life away : Johnson being a loving man , and boar a careful mind , He put his Cloak about her to keep her from the wind . Straight upon Horseback presently went he , And they rid all out of the wood , and rid on gallantly : Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts said Johnson , let us sing up a Jig . With a heigh down-down , with a heigh down derry dee , What if here were ten thieves so we are true men three , Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , the Lands end draws nigh The woman hearing him say so , presently by and by , She put her finger to her ear , and gave a squeaking cry , Ten thieves then with weapons drawn in hand , They stepped before Johnson , and quickly bid him stand . What is it so ? said Johnson , since 'twill no better be , I vow that some of you shall before I killed be : Stand fast , fight men , see that you be not idle , For I vow his hand shall off that lays hold on my Bridle . Alas , said Kitson , to fight no heart have I , No more have I said Wilson , in faith i'de rather die : Here is three hundred pound that we are bound to pay , And you shall have it all , and let's escape with life away . WHat is it so , said Johnson , Fight men , and be free , And stand but at my back , keep the back blows from me : Stand fast , fight men , fight men and be free , And by the help of God we shall win the victory . Five of these thieves and the woman they did go , To Kitson and to Wilson and bound them fast in woe : As these ten Thieves played before him and played upon the ground For Johnson had five Pistols with Bullets charged found . With Bullets charged found , presently he let fly , Till five of these Thieves upon the ground did lie : Put up , said the other five , put up without delay , For if that he gets charged , he will kill us all this day . Fight on , said the Woman , fight on I say to you , For if you five doubt kill him , I vow your Priest to be : So Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might and main , And play'd about him gallantly till three more of them were slave Put up , said the other two , put up without delay , For if that he continue fight he'l kill us all this day : Fight on , said the woman , fight on I say to you , For if you two doubt kill him , I vow your Priest to be . As these two Thieves play'd before him , alas he did not mind , For presently the woman knocked him down behind : O wretched woman , wickedly hast thou done , Thou hast kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone For had but my fellows , had they prov'd true to me ; They were cowards , said the woman and as cowards they shall dyy , Two of these thieves and the Woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson where they lay hound in woe : A Club in her hand , as she god all the gains , Went to Kitson and to Wilson and dashed out both their brains . How this murder was discovered , list and you shall hear , It was by a silly Shepherd , hid in the hedge for fear , A Gentleman and his man as they came riding by , Seeing this woeful murder straight sent forth hue and cry , Ay , but do what e're they could , taken they could not be , For they god Ship at Yarmouh , and so went over Sea , This is the trick of Thieves when they have murder done , When they have committed Roguery , full fast away they run . God bless our royal King and Queen , and send them long to reign , In health , wealth , and prosperity , true justce to maintain , God bless all true men that travel by Land or Sea , And keep all true men out of Thieves Company , FINIS . Paul Burges . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . The three Worthy Butchers of the North . I weep , I wail , and travel much in pain ; Now all my youthful days are spent , they'l never come again : Once I was a Man , but now alas am none , For all my Companions are from me fled , and gone , To a pleasant New Tune . DId you never hear of worthy Butchers three ? And how they spent their days in mirth and jollity r There was Kitson , Wilson , and Johnson , mark me what I say , They took three hundred pounds worth of Goods upon a day . When as the day of payment began for to draw near , Their money to their Creditors intended for to bear ; And riding throw Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a jig . With a heigh down , down , with a down derry dee , God bless all true men out of thieves Company ; Riding then up Blankny-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts said Johnson , I hear a woman cry , Oh help , help , help , Oh help , or else I die , Oh help me some good Christians , for my torments they draw nigh Oh hark , Oh hark , said Johnson , I hear a woman cry , Sure I came of a woman , and shall I see her die ? Don't ride on neighbour Johnson , now Kitson he did say , For that is some lewd woman , will cast us all away : If you had but rid on this way as oft as we have done , You would hove herd this cry before , and now let us be gone Then Johnson whipped into the wood with all might and main , Whereas he found the woman with Cords fast ty'd in twain With Cords fast ty'd in twain , and hand and [ f ] oot was bound And found her there stark naked , with her hair pin'd to the ground . Alas , said Johnson , what man has us'd thee so ? He came not of a woman , that would work a woman's woe : Hast thou no lewd Company ? now Johnson he did say , For here we are come to save thy life , thou mayest cast us all away . No I have no lewd Company , the woman she did say , Three Ruffians came riding by , and rob [ ' ] worser me by the way : They took my Clooths from me , and hand and foot me bound And left me here in woeful sort , with my hair pin'd on the ground . So Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might & main And presently the woman's Cords , Johnson he cut in twain : A Shirt out of his Cloak-bag presently plucked he , And put it on the woman to cover her secrecy . I have neither wife nor Children , Johnson he did say , And thou shalt be Lady of all till death take life away : Johnson being a loving man , and boar a careful mind , He put his Cloak about her to keep her from the wind . Straight upon Horseback presently went he , And they rid all out of the wood , and rid on gallantly : Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts said Johnson , let us sing up a Jig . With a heigh down-down , with a heigh down derry dee , What if here were ten thieves so we are true men three , Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , the Lands end draws nigh The woman hearing him say so , presently by and by , She put her finger to her ear , and gave a squeaking cry , Ten thieves then with weapons drawn in hand , They stepped before Johnson , and quickly bid him stand . What is it so ? said Johnson , since 'twill no better be , I vow that some of you shall before I killed be : Stand fast , fight men , see that you be not idle , For I vow his hand shall off that lays hold on my Bridle . Alas , said Kitson , to fight no heart have I , No more have I said Wilson , in faith i'de rather die : Here is three hundred pound that we are bound to pay , And you shall have it all , and let's escape with life away . WHat is it so , said Johnson , Fight men , and be free , And stand but at my back , keep the back blows from me : Stand fast , fight men , fight men and be free , And by the help of God we shall win the victory . Five of these thieves and the woman they did go , To Kitson and to Wilson and bound them fast in woe : As these ten Thieves played before him and played upon the ground For Johnson had five Pistols with Bullets charged found . With Bullets charged found , presently he let fly , Till five of these Thieves upon the ground did lie : Put up , said the other five , put up without delay , For if that he gets charged , he will kill us all this day . Fight on , said the Woman , fight on I say to you , For if you five doubt kill him , I vow your Priest to be : So Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might and main , And play'd about him gallantly till three more of them were slave Put up , said the other two , put up without delay , For if that he continue fight he'l kill us all this day : Fight on , said the woman , fight on I say to you , For if you two doubt kill him , I vow your Priest to be . As these two Thieves play'd before him , alas he did not mind , For presently the woman knocked him down behind : O wretched woman , wickedly hast thou done , Thou hast kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone For had but my fellows , had they prov'd true to me ; They were cowards , said the woman and as cowards they shall dyy , Two of these thieves and the Woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson where they lay hound in woe : A Club in her hand , as she god all the gains , Went to Kitson and to Wilson and dashed out both their brains . How this murder was discovered , list and you shall hear , It was by a silly Shepherd , hid in the hedge for fear , A Gentleman and his man as they came riding by , Seeing this woeful murder straight sent forth hue and cry , Ay , but do what e're they could , taken they could not be , For they god Ship at Yarmouh , and so went over Sea , This is the trick of Thieves when they have murder done , When they have committed Roguery , full fast away they run . God bless our royal King and Queen , and send them long to reign , In health , wealth , and prosperity , true justce to maintain , God bless all true men that travel by Land or Sea , And keep all true men out of Thieves Company , FINIS . Paul Burges . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . 