A Cheat in all Trads , Or the World turned upsid down . GOOD People now listen , I cannot forbear , To tell how the World's enthralled in care ; Then to find a just Man I do positively say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . What a pitiful pass this World's come to , Most Men have forgotten to be honest and true ; For to find out a Friend when you fallen to decay , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . If you have abundance of Money to spend , So long as that lasts you will have a good Friend , But when it is gone , your Friend , will not stay , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The nimble-tongu'd Lawyer will promise you fair , And says that he will of your Cause take great care ; But to look for one , who won't cheat you I say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Doctors , Physicians , and all the Quack Crew , Will punish your Body , and make you to rue ; Your Purse they will empty , or will not long stay , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Brewer complaineth be the Malt cheap or dear , That he can't afford so much Malt in his Beer ; So to find out strong Beer you must go a great way , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Farmer and Miller , and Baker is pleas'd , When Bred it is dear , tho' the Poor it does tease , But to find out a Knave on the poor does not prey , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of a Hay . The Butcher is likewise a sly cunning Knave , He'll cheat you with sling , when good Meat you ; should have . And if on this World you rely I do say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The fat Tallow Chandler does on us exact , And extravagant Price , and blames the late Act , And says that their Scales they justly do weigh . You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The subtle Coal-Merchant as I am alive , To cut all their Measures did lately contrive ; Then to find out a Coal-man that's just in his Way , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The cunning sharp Taylor the Truth for to tell , Give him but and Inch , he will soon take and Ell ; Trust Miss that makes Mantua's if such tricks she doubt play You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The cursed Distiller by the Fumes of his Still , Draw's thence damn'd Geneva , which thousands do kill And to find out good Brandy in his Shop I do say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Next Cut-Throat the Barber does look very big , With old rotten Hair , he'll mix your new Wig ; Find a Barber won't bite you that very same way , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Tallow man's Conscience is known to be large And the Devil the Pawnbroker ne'er will dischare , Then find out worse knaves search the World I do say You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . There's also Tom Tinker to purchase strong Drink , Cries Kettles or Pots Maids I'll mend for your Chrink If one hold he stop , he'll make two I dare say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Next Mr. Church Warden does walk with a Grace , Unto the Next Tavern , and there takes his Place If in Sack and fat Capons he don't spend the poor's pay You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Shop keepers do not cozen for to pop of bad Ware All Mortals that's living in Fraud have a Share , Find a Servant won't loiter when his Master's awe You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay Plain Dealing's a Jewel , but he that does use it , They say die a Beggar , therefore Men refuse it Find out one that's Upright , then the Truth Sir I say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Then since this mad World is so base and unjust , And Whoredom and Vice now among us is nursed ; Those Men that are honest ( tho' poor ) I do say , Will be the most happy upon the last Day . FINIS . A Cheat in all Trads , Or the World turned upsid down . GOOD People now listen , I cannot forbear , To tell how the World's enthralled in care ; Then to find a just Man I do positively say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . What a pitiful pass this World's come to , Most Men have forgotten to be honest and true ; For to find out a Friend when you fallen to decay , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . If you have abundance of Money to spend , So long as that lasts you will have a good Friend , But when it is gone , your Friend , will not stay , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The nimble-tongu'd Lawyer will promise you fair , And says that he will of your Cause take great care ; But to look for one , who won't cheat you I say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Doctors , Physicians , and all the Quack Crew , Will punish your Body , and make you to rue ; Your Purse they will empty , or will not long stay , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Brewer complaineth be the Malt cheap or dear , That he can't afford so much Malt in his Beer ; So to find out strong Beer you must go a great way , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Farmer and Miller , and Baker is pleas'd , When Bred it is dear , tho' the Poor it does tease , But to find out a Knave on the poor does not prey , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of a Hay . The Butcher is likewise a sly cunning Knave , He'll cheat you with sling , when good Meat you ; should have . And if on this World you rely I do say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The fat Tallow Chandler does on us exact , And extravagant Price , and blames the late Act , And says that their Scales they justly do weigh . You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The subtle Coal-Merchant as I am alive , To cut all their Measures did lately contrive ; Then to find out a Coal-man that's just in his Way , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The cunning sharp Taylor the Truth for to tell , Give him but and Inch , he will soon take and Ell ; Trust Miss that makes Mantua's if such tricks she doubt play You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The cursed Distiller by the Fumes of his Still , Draw's thence damn'd Geneva , which thousands do kill And to find out good Brandy in his Shop I do say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Next Cut-Throat the Barber does look very big , With old rotten Hair , he'll mix your new Wig ; Find a Barber won't bite you that very same way , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . The Tallow man's Conscience is known to be large And the Devil the Pawnbroker ne'er will dischare , Then find out worse knaves search the World I do say You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . There's also Tom Tinker to purchase strong Drink , Cries Kettles or Pots Maids I'll mend for your Chrink If one hold he stop , he'll make two I dare say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Next Mr. Church Warden does walk with a Grace , Unto the Next Tavern , and there takes his Place If in Sack and fat Capons he don't spend the poor's pay You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Shop keepers do not cozen for to pop of bad Ware All Mortals that's living in Fraud have a Share , Find a Servant won't loiter when his Master's awe You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay Plain Dealing's a Jewel , but he that does use it , They say die a Beggar , therefore Men refuse it Find out one that's Upright , then the Truth Sir I say , You may as well find a Needle in a Bottle of Hay . Then since this mad World is so base and unjust , And Whoredom and Vice now among us is nursed ; Those Men that are honest ( tho' poor ) I do say , Will be the most happy upon the last Day . FINIS . 