A soluntary SONG , for all stubborn Sinners to amend their Lives and evil Ways . For uncertain is men life one day For many you see are snatched away We stand in need then every minute & hour . To pray for Gods Grace to give us power To repent our lives and mend our ways We are in great danger in these days . If Death do come and we be unprepar'd , There will be then a bad reward ; Therefore we had need to watch and pray That our Sins they may be all washed away ; There's but one way that we can have , There's no Repentance in the Grave . To the Tune of The Sinners Redemption . GOod People mind what here is penn'd and understand what I do say Repentance by no means prolong 'twill be your own another day , Happy's that sinner to be sure , That true Repentance can procure , For when that I am dead and gone you find these words for to be true , Forsake your Sins then every one , before you bid the world adieu , Happy's that Sinner , If you are not prepar'd for Death , when he does give the fatal stroke And comes to stop your mortal Breath , your Souls undone and Hearts are broke , Happy's that Sinner , The Riches of this world have wings and oft you see do fly away Then mind you that which comfort brings that never fades nor will decay Happy's that Sinner , Do Righteous things to every one as thou wouldst have them to do to thee By this a good man may be known by his good works and piety , Happy's that Sinner . Cherish the poor that are in need the Rich do seldom want a friend But he that gives the poor indeed , does to the God Almighty lend , Happy's that Sinner to be sure , That true Repentance can procure . The second part to the same Tune . The naked man see that you cloth , the hungry Person see you feed , These things observe false dealing loath and thou shalt happy be indeed , Happy's that Sinner . Frequent the Church where Godly men , Gods word do preach and cry down since , Keep Gods Commandments and then a blessed condition thou art in , Happy's that Sinner The Widow be thou kind unto and help the Orphant that's oppressed , For he that all these things will do there is no doubt but he is blessed , Happy's that Sinner , And he that hath mercy loves to show , shall mercy find himself at last , But Cruelty will overthrow and all the other virtues blast , Happy's that Sinner . Flee that which loathsome is to man , and hateful in Gods blessed sighed 'Tis drunkenness that here I mean , wherein so many take delight , Happy's that Sinner , Take Pleasure in Gods Holy Word , and therein set your hearts delight , Such Pleasure 'twill your Hearts afford that you will find advantage by't , Happy's that Sinner . Pride was you know the Devils Fallen , as Holy Scriptures plain do tell ; 'Twill also bring men Soul to thrall and is a plain pathway to Hell , Happy's that Sinner , And oft the holy Bible read therein you may great Comfort find , For wounded Souls there's help indeed and Comfort for the troubled mind , Happy's that Sinner . Mind not the Peoples vain applause but let your actions speak your praise Keep Gods Commands and obey his Laws , and thou shall happy be always , Happy's that Sinner . Repent thee of thy wickedness and do it most unfeignedly , So in thy life God will thee bless and save thy Soul when thou shalt die , Happy's that Sinner . Do not delay Repentance for 'tis without doubt a great offence , And that which Conscience will abhor , when thy poor Soul is gone from hence Happy's that Sinner . Then mortal man since Death is sure put thou thy confidence in him Who only can thy help procure in time of need when Death looks grim Happy's that Sinner . Now the God of Heaven be our guide , that we all may make a happy end , That we all our Sins may lay aside to pray our Saviour Christ be our friend , Happy's that Sinner to be sure That true Repentance can procure . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Pie corner . A soluntary SONG , for all stubborn Sinners to amend their Lives and evil Ways . For uncertain is men life one day For many you see are snatched away We stand in need then every minute & hour . To pray for Gods Grace to give us power To repent our lives and mend our ways We are in great danger in these days . If Death do come and we be unprepar'd , There will be then a bad reward ; Therefore we had need to watch and pray That our Sins they may be all washed away ; There's but one way that we can have , There's no Repentance in the Grave . To the Tune of The Sinners Redemption . GOod People mind what here is penn'd and understand what I do say Repentance by no means prolong 'twill be your own another day , Happy's that sinner to be sure , That true Repentance can procure , For when that I am dead and gone you find these words for to be true , Forsake your Sins then every one , before you bid the world adieu , Happy's that Sinner , If you are not prepar'd for Death , when he does give the fatal stroke And comes to stop your mortal Breath , your Souls undone and Hearts are broke , Happy's that Sinner , The Riches of this world have wings and oft you see do fly away Then mind you that which comfort brings that never fades nor will decay Happy's that Sinner , Do Righteous things to every one as thou wouldst have them to do to thee By this a good man may be known by his good works and piety , Happy's that Sinner . Cherish the poor that are in need the Rich do seldom want a friend But he that gives the poor indeed , does to the God Almighty lend , Happy's that Sinner to be sure , That true Repentance can procure . The second part to the same Tune . The naked man see that you cloth , the hungry Person see you feed , These things observe false dealing loath and thou shalt happy be indeed , Happy's that Sinner . Frequent the Church where Godly men , Gods word do preach and cry down since , Keep Gods Commandments and then a blessed condition thou art in , Happy's that Sinner The Widow be thou kind unto and help the Orphant that's oppressed , For he that all these things will do there is no doubt but he is blessed , Happy's that Sinner , And he that hath mercy loves to show , shall mercy find himself at last , But Cruelty will overthrow and all the other virtues blast , Happy's that Sinner . Flee that which loathsome is to man , and hateful in Gods blessed sighed 'Tis drunkenness that here I mean , wherein so many take delight , Happy's that Sinner , Take Pleasure in Gods Holy Word , and therein set your hearts delight , Such Pleasure 'twill your Hearts afford that you will find advantage by't , Happy's that Sinner . Pride was you know the Devils Fallen , as Holy Scriptures plain do tell ; 'Twill also bring men Soul to thrall and is a plain pathway to Hell , Happy's that Sinner , And oft the holy Bible read therein you may great Comfort find , For wounded Souls there's help indeed and Comfort for the troubled mind , Happy's that Sinner . Mind not the Peoples vain applause but let your actions speak your praise Keep Gods Commands and obey his Laws , and thou shall happy be always , Happy's that Sinner . Repent thee of thy wickedness and do it most unfeignedly , So in thy life God will thee bless and save thy Soul when thou shalt die , Happy's that Sinner . Do not delay Repentance for 'tis without doubt a great offence , And that which Conscience will abhor , when thy poor Soul is gone from hence Happy's that Sinner . Then mortal man since Death is sure put thou thy confidence in him Who only can thy help procure in time of need when Death looks grim Happy's that Sinner . Now the God of Heaven be our guide , that we all may make a happy end , That we all our Sins may lay aside to pray our Saviour Christ be our friend , Happy's that Sinner to be sure That true Repentance can procure . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Pie corner . 