The Happy Return of the Old Dutch MILLER . To the Tune of the First . [ 1 ] GOod People of England , I hope you have had Experience of my Art in my Trade ; For I am the Miller that was here before , And ground Women young , of four or five-score . Then make haste Customers , bring in your Tribes ; I'l quickly dispatch them without any Bribes . For I am so Zealous for Whiglanders Crew , I'l cure their Distempers with one Turn or Two. [ 2 ] And now ( for your comfort ) I am come again , To cure the defection among all your Men ; Whither they be Factious , Stupid or Lame ; Let's see e're a Chemist that can do the same . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 3 ] If you have e're a City that's troubl'd with Simples ; That's over-rich grown , and has Rebellious pimples I'l strip it of all these defects in and hour , And make it submit to the King or the Tower . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 4 ] If you have and Old Cripple that sits and designs , Which way to destroy the King and his Vines ; Or if that his Tap stand in the wrong place , And piss above Navle , I'l cure his Disease . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 5 ] In my Mill I will put him , 'twixt two Sainted Whores , Who shall raise his Rudder with help of their Oars : Between their warm Bellies , like Pug , he shall lie , Till they suck out his Senses , and leave his Tap dry . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 6 ] Then out of the Stew I'l hang him o' th' Top Of one of my Sails , at the end of a Rope : There in the wind he shall swing up and down , Till he caper and grin with th' best Monkey in Town . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 7 ] If you have e're a Fop that's proud of a String , And fain would aspire to the Throne of a King : Bring him to my Mill , I will presently show If he's qualified for a Monarch , or no . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 8 ] If you have e're a Lord that's Pimp to his Wife , And to hide his Horns would venture his Life : Send Her to my Mill , I'l venture a Trial , To make Her as Honest as e're He was Loyal . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 9 ] If you have e're a Slabering Lord that's a Fool , And sits in Cabals , a Kingdom to Rule , And stands for a Statesman : I'le make him as able As ever a Helper in all his own Stable . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 10 ] If you have e're a Lord that used to Preach I' th' Top of a Crab-Tree , above all your reach , And still the Lords Supper expos'd in Lambswool : Send him to my Mill , I'le Reform his Skull . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 11 ] If you have e'r a Knight that's Knave and Threadbare , That deals in Neck-Laces , and such kind of Ware : And stole the best Plot , now hides it in Bristol : Bring him to my Mill , I'le make him confess't all . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 12 ] If you have , or had , any Sheriffs that are Whigs , That have cut off some Heads , and are cutting off Legs Bring them , and their Perjur'd Juries together , I'l turn 'em all round in my Mill with the Weather , Then make haste Customers , etc [ 13 ] If you have e'r a Doctor that has ne'r a Mouth , But a Hold in the place for a Nose , North & South : Put him in my Mill , it shall make him speak Sense Behind and before , like a Quaker in Trance . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 13 ] If He has been Perjur'd Ten Thousand times o'r , And for want of Employment begins to grow Poor ; I'l make him as Rich ( if he know his own Name ) As when he came Mumping from Flanders or Spain . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 15 ] If Forty Religions he dares to Believe , And yet Preacheth Blasphemy , Fools to deceive : Put him in my Mill , with more of the Grist , I'l make him a Devil , a Man , or a Beast . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 16 ] If you have any Plots , either Sham Ones or True Ones , Bring out the Contrivers , both black ones & blue ones : I'l either Refine 'em from all their past Ill , Or else I will strangle them All in my MILL . Then make haste Customers , bring in our Tribes , I'l quickly dispatch them without any Bribes ; For I am so Zealous for Whiglanders Crew , I'l cure their Distempers with One Turn or Two. LONDON , Printed for Allen Banks , Anno Domini , 1682 The Happy Return of the Old Dutch MILLER . To the Tune of the First . [ 1 ] GOod People of England , I hope you have had Experience of my Art in my Trade ; For I am the Miller that was here before , And ground Women young , of four or five-score . Then make haste Customers , bring in your Tribes ; I'l quickly dispatch them without any Bribes . For I am so Zealous for Whiglanders Crew , I'l cure their Distempers with one Turn or Two. [ 2 ] And now ( for your comfort ) I am come again , To cure the defection among all your Men ; Whither they be Factious , Stupid or Lame ; Let's see e're a Chemist that can do the same . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 3 ] If you have e're a City that's troubl'd with Simples ; That's over-rich grown , and has Rebellious pimples I'l strip it of all these defects in and hour , And make it submit to the King or the Tower . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 4 ] If you have and Old Cripple that sits and designs , Which way to destroy the King and his Vines ; Or if that his Tap stand in the wrong place , And piss above Navle , I'l cure his Disease . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 5 ] In my Mill I will put him , 'twixt two Sainted Whores , Who shall raise his Rudder with help of their Oars : Between their warm Bellies , like Pug , he shall lie , Till they suck out his Senses , and leave his Tap dry . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 6 ] Then out of the Stew I'l hang him o' th' Top Of one of my Sails , at the end of a Rope : There in the wind he shall swing up and down , Till he caper and grin with th' best Monkey in Town . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 7 ] If you have e're a Fop that's proud of a String , And fain would aspire to the Throne of a King : Bring him to my Mill , I will presently show If he's qualified for a Monarch , or no . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 8 ] If you have e're a Lord that's Pimp to his Wife , And to hide his Horns would venture his Life : Send Her to my Mill , I'l venture a Trial , To make Her as Honest as e're He was Loyal . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 9 ] If you have e're a Slabering Lord that's a Fool , And sits in Cabals , a Kingdom to Rule , And stands for a Statesman : I'le make him as able As ever a Helper in all his own Stable . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 10 ] If you have e're a Lord that used to Preach I' th' Top of a Crab-Tree , above all your reach , And still the Lords Supper expos'd in Lambswool : Send him to my Mill , I'le Reform his Skull . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 11 ] If you have e'r a Knight that's Knave and Threadbare , That deals in Neck-Laces , and such kind of Ware : And stole the best Plot , now hides it in Bristol : Bring him to my Mill , I'le make him confess't all . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 12 ] If you have , or had , any Sheriffs that are Whigs , That have cut off some Heads , and are cutting off Legs Bring them , and their Perjur'd Juries together , I'l turn 'em all round in my Mill with the Weather , Then make haste Customers , etc [ 13 ] If you have e'r a Doctor that has ne'r a Mouth , But a Hold in the place for a Nose , North & South : Put him in my Mill , it shall make him speak Sense Behind and before , like a Quaker in Trance . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 13 ] If He has been Perjur'd Ten Thousand times o'r , And for want of Employment begins to grow Poor ; I'l make him as Rich ( if he know his own Name ) As when he came Mumping from Flanders or Spain . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 15 ] If Forty Religions he dares to Believe , And yet Preacheth Blasphemy , Fools to deceive : Put him in my Mill , with more of the Grist , I'l make him a Devil , a Man , or a Beast . Then make haste Customers , etc [ 16 ] If you have any Plots , either Sham Ones or True Ones , Bring out the Contrivers , both black ones & blue ones : I'l either Refine 'em from all their past Ill , Or else I will strangle them All in my MILL . Then make haste Customers , bring in our Tribes , I'l quickly dispatch them without any Bribes ; For I am so Zealous for Whiglanders Crew , I'l cure their Distempers with One Turn or Two. LONDON , Printed for Allen Banks , Anno Domini , 1682 