( 1 ) The Examination , Confession , and Execution of Ursula Corbet , who , for Poisoning of her Husband SIMON CORBET , was Burned near to Worcester the fifteenth Day of March , 1660. To the Tune of , The bleeding Heart . GOod women all a while give ear , both old and young mark and take heed Wed not where love does not appear , nor do not as this woman oh [ ? ] Her Parents honest people were , and all her kindred are the same : But want of serving God with fear , she brought herself unto great shame . She was brought up most honestly , and all her kindred little thought , That she so vild and barbarously , this wicked murder would have wrought . In Parshowk was she born and bred , from thence to Deford she was wed Unto a man that lov'd her dear , born of good friends as does appear . Ursula Bough that was her name , until that she a wife became : Then Ursula Corbet truly , and by that name condemn'd to die . For want of serving God above , the Devil made her do this deed : 'Cause she did not her Husband love , she sought to rid his life with speed . She but a small time wedded was , before she studied in her mind , To bring this wicked deed to pass , and presently a way did find . To rid her Husband of his life , for him with speed she poison bough And so like to a wicked wife , Petty Treason against him wrought . When she had brought this Poison home , to work this plot she did contrive : In milk with speed she gave him some , the which did him of life deprive . But when that he had eaten all the milk that she prepar'd for him : He presently soar sick did fallen , and for to swell did straight begin . Then in came neighbours presently , to see how this sick person did : And looking on him steadfastly , some said that he was poisoned . Then Salad Oil they had with speed , thinking to make him purge thereby : But it did little good indeed unto his woeful misery . And then a Surgeon she would have immediately to let him blood : Thinking thereby his life to save , but that did him more harm then good . The poison was so strong indeed , to save him was no remedy : At last his days death finished , and then began her misery . The Crowners Quest with full consent , did find her guilty of the deed : And so to a Justice she was sent , And then to Jail convey'd with speed . And when the Judging Sizes came , that she was to her trial brought ; There for to answer for the same , she had against her Husband wrought . Unto the Lord that rules above , although her deeds were very foul : That he in mercy and in love , would take some pity on her soul . The which she did most earnestly , both heart and hand she lifted up : Quoth she , though here in flames I fry , I hope this night with Christ to sup . And then with heart most patiently , she did forgive both old and young : But yet she often did reply , that Robert Willmot did her wrong . But yet before that she did die , she him and all the world forgave : With prayers looking towards the Sky , that Christ her sinful Soul would save . A rope about her neck was plac't , and to the post was bound with chains With straw and faggots to her plac't , to put her soon out of her pains . Then they put fire unto the same , which quickly stopped her vital breath : No shriek nor cry then from her came , but patiently she rook her death . Thus have you herd her woeful end , and for what cause she lost her life : 'Cause she was not her Husbands friend , but prov'd to him a cruel wife . Now I entreat all [ ? ] wives , that does these Verses read or hear : For to live honest quiet lives , in perfect love and godly fear . And I all people do entreat , although this Woman died with shame : That none in hate or malice great , do twit her kindred with the same . There is many a graceless Child indeed , are born and bred of honest friends : Yet Fortune hath predestened , they may come to untimely ends . As did this Woman certainly , of whom this subject here is penn'd : She was brought up most honestly , though came to this untimely end . But I once more with speeches mild , praying none to tell her friends of this : But all in love be reconcil'd , although that she did doe amiss . Now to conclude , to God let's pray , that old and young may mend their lives : God grant true faith and peace bear sway , and love between all men and wives . FINIS . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the white Lion near Pye-Corner . ( 1 ) The Examination , Confession , and Execution of Ursula Corbet , who , for Poisoning of her Husband SIMON CORBET , was Burned near to Worcester the fifteenth Day of March , 1660. To the Tune of , The bleeding Heart . GOod women all a while give ear , both old and young mark and take heed Wed not where love does not appear , nor do not as this woman oh [ ? ] Her Parents honest people were , and all her kindred are the same : But want of serving God with fear , she brought herself unto great shame . She was brought up most honestly , and all her kindred little thought , That she so vild and barbarously , this wicked murder would have wrought . In Parshowk was she born and bred , from thence to Deford she was wed Unto a man that lov'd her dear , born of good friends as does appear . Ursula Bough that was her name , until that she a wife became : Then Ursula Corbet truly , and by that name condemn'd to die . For want of serving God above , the Devil made her do this deed : 'Cause she did not her Husband love , she sought to rid his life with speed . She but a small time wedded was , before she studied in her mind , To bring this wicked deed to pass , and presently a way did find . To rid her Husband of his life , for him with speed she poison bough And so like to a wicked wife , Petty Treason against him wrought . When she had brought this Poison home , to work this plot she did contrive : In milk with speed she gave him some , the which did him of life deprive . But when that he had eaten all the milk that she prepar'd for him : He presently soar sick did fallen , and for to swell did straight begin . Then in came neighbours presently , to see how this sick person did : And looking on him steadfastly , some said that he was poisoned . Then Salad Oil they had with speed , thinking to make him purge thereby : But it did little good indeed unto his woeful misery . And then a Surgeon she would have immediately to let him blood : Thinking thereby his life to save , but that did him more harm then good . The poison was so strong indeed , to save him was no remedy : At last his days death finished , and then began her misery . The Crowners Quest with full consent , did find her guilty of the deed : And so to a Justice she was sent , And then to Jail convey'd with speed . And when the Judging Sizes came , that she was to her trial brought ; There for to answer for the same , she had against her Husband wrought . Unto the Lord that rules above , although her deeds were very foul : That he in mercy and in love , would take some pity on her soul . The which she did most earnestly , both heart and hand she lifted up : Quoth she , though here in flames I fry , I hope this night with Christ to sup . And then with heart most patiently , she did forgive both old and young : But yet she often did reply , that Robert Willmot did her wrong . But yet before that she did die , she him and all the world forgave : With prayers looking towards the Sky , that Christ her sinful Soul would save . A rope about her neck was plac't , and to the post was bound with chains With straw and faggots to her plac't , to put her soon out of her pains . Then they put fire unto the same , which quickly stopped her vital breath : No shriek nor cry then from her came , but patiently she rook her death . Thus have you herd her woeful end , and for what cause she lost her life : 'Cause she was not her Husbands friend , but prov'd to him a cruel wife . Now I entreat all [ ? ] wives , that does these Verses read or hear : For to live honest quiet lives , in perfect love and godly fear . And I all people do entreat , although this Woman died with shame : That none in hate or malice great , do twit her kindred with the same . There is many a graceless Child indeed , are born and bred of honest friends : Yet Fortune hath predestened , they may come to untimely ends . As did this Woman certainly , of whom this subject here is penn'd : She was brought up most honestly , though came to this untimely end . But I once more with speeches mild , praying none to tell her friends of this : But all in love be reconcil'd , although that she did doe amiss . Now to conclude , to God let's pray , that old and young may mend their lives : God grant true faith and peace bear sway , and love between all men and wives . FINIS . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the white Lion near Pye-Corner . 