THE Languishing SWAIN . OR , The Happy Return of his Loyal Love . This Loyal Swain , did much complain , his love was most unkind , Which when she herd , she soon appear'd , and eas'd his grieved mind . Tune of , Charon make haste . This may be Printed , R.P. DOwn by the side of a fair Christial Fountain , I overheard a young Shepherd's Swain , While many sorrows he then was recounting , crying sweet Darling thou art to blame : Think of the Vows you often made me , that you would never prove untrue , Yet I experience you now have betray'd me , never was Woman more false then you . My pretty young Lambs that are by me feeding , can ne'r be sensible of my woe , With passion of Love my poor heart is bleeding , since she will never no kindness show : Who I esteem my dearest Jewel , now at the last has prov'd untrue , I never thought you could have been so cruel , was ever Woman more false then you . While I was enjoying each pleasing favour , which you did frequently then extend , I never thought that your mind it would waver , but now I find it is at and end . Are you not guilty of my ruin , since I must bid the World adieu , Nothing but sorrows I see are ensuing , was ever Woman more false then you . How I lament for to think of those hours , which with my love I did once enjoy , Among the Violets and sweet fragrant flowers , now all my freedom she does destroy : I am deprived of the pleasure , therefore I know not what to do , For my sad torment is now out of measure , was ever Woman more false then you ? Altho' I might have the choicest of many , nothing my fancy can e're remove , For surely I never can fancy any , but thee alone whom I dearly love : Here I declare I can't be fickle , still to my Vow I will prove true , Then from his eyes many tears they did trickle was ever Woman more false then you ? Now when the Damsel did hear his Oration , in a soft Language she did reply , This is no more then a false accusation , never was Creature more true than I : Tho' I some hours here did leave thee , to tend my Lambs within the Grove , Yet I resolv'd I would never deceive thee , but will be loyal to thee my love . Thou that hast been my unfeigned pretender , shall have no reason thus to complain , Here to thy Arms I my self do surrender , and will for ever with thee remain : Might I have all the Indian treasure , it should my fancy ne'r remove : Thou shalt enjoy all the blessings of pleasure , for i'le be loyal to thee my love . Then he arose and was running to meet her , his Joys was rais'd to this vast extreme , Saying , is this the voice of my sweet Creature , or is it but a deluding dream : No , it is I , said she , sweet Jewel , who will be like the Turtle Dove , I never yet was , nor ne'r will be cruel , but will be loyal to thee my love . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur - street without Newgate . THE Languishing SWAIN . OR , The Happy Return of his Loyal Love . This Loyal Swain , did much complain , his love was most unkind , Which when she herd , she soon appear'd , and eas'd his grieved mind . Tune of , Charon make haste . This may be Printed , R.P. DOwn by the side of a fair Christial Fountain , I overheard a young Shepherd's Swain , While many sorrows he then was recounting , crying sweet Darling thou art to blame : Think of the Vows you often made me , that you would never prove untrue , Yet I experience you now have betray'd me , never was Woman more false then you . My pretty young Lambs that are by me feeding , can ne'r be sensible of my woe , With passion of Love my poor heart is bleeding , since she will never no kindness show : Who I esteem my dearest Jewel , now at the last has prov'd untrue , I never thought you could have been so cruel , was ever Woman more false then you . While I was enjoying each pleasing favour , which you did frequently then extend , I never thought that your mind it would waver , but now I find it is at and end . Are you not guilty of my ruin , since I must bid the World adieu , Nothing but sorrows I see are ensuing , was ever Woman more false then you . How I lament for to think of those hours , which with my love I did once enjoy , Among the Violets and sweet fragrant flowers , now all my freedom she does destroy : I am deprived of the pleasure , therefore I know not what to do , For my sad torment is now out of measure , was ever Woman more false then you ? Altho' I might have the choicest of many , nothing my fancy can e're remove , For surely I never can fancy any , but thee alone whom I dearly love : Here I declare I can't be fickle , still to my Vow I will prove true , Then from his eyes many tears they did trickle was ever Woman more false then you ? Now when the Damsel did hear his Oration , in a soft Language she did reply , This is no more then a false accusation , never was Creature more true than I : Tho' I some hours here did leave thee , to tend my Lambs within the Grove , Yet I resolv'd I would never deceive thee , but will be loyal to thee my love . Thou that hast been my unfeigned pretender , shall have no reason thus to complain , Here to thy Arms I my self do surrender , and will for ever with thee remain : Might I have all the Indian treasure , it should my fancy ne'r remove : Thou shalt enjoy all the blessings of pleasure , for i'le be loyal to thee my love . Then he arose and was running to meet her , his Joys was rais'd to this vast extreme , Saying , is this the voice of my sweet Creature , or is it but a deluding dream : No , it is I , said she , sweet Jewel , who will be like the Turtle Dove , I never yet was , nor ne'r will be cruel , but will be loyal to thee my love . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur - street without Newgate . 