The Crafty MAID's APPROBATION : Wherein she shows either Black or Brown , 'Tis Money makes them straight go down ; When pretty Girls that Gold has none , Their fortune is still to lie alone . DRaw near to me young Girls so fine , Whose means and portion's like to mine : If you'll but hear what I have pen'd , 'Twill make you smile before I end : I once had Sweethearts fair and young , Tho' now from me he's fled and gone ; But i'll tell you a very good reason why , 'Twas Money did part my Love and I . When first to me a wooing he came , He did desire to know my name ; I told him my portion it was but small , He said he valued none at all : So that my favour he could win , He valued nothing else a pin ; But now he's gone and I know not why , 'Twas money , etc Yet for three years his love stood fast , And he vow'd for ever it should las But when my Friends spoke of the same , Then he was for another Dame ; Except so much money they'd give me , No Wife for him I must not be : His words he clearly did deny , So money did part my Love and I . Thus Maids may see , so may I too , It is for money young Men woo : A great deal of love they will pretend , But mark what falls out in the end ; When they find your portions are but small , Like to a snake from you they'll crawl : And to another straight they'll high , So money did part , etc If I had a head like a horse , Or a body as thick as a mill post ; So bags came but tumbling in , Then my favour every Fool wou'd win ; Or was I long snouted like a sow , Or else crookbacked like our fine cow : Have at her then , these Boys would cry , She's money enough , and what care I . Young Men don't blush , you know 'tis true , For let her name be Marry or Sue ; Tho' she was blabber-lipt , also blear-ey'd , Yet money all those faults will hide ; Nay , where she the nastiest dingiest Slut , That a Man durst not after her crack a nut ; Had she but money , house , or land , I'm sure she would not stick long a hand . Yet we whose portions are but small , Let us not be dismayed at all : Neither let us grieve , lament , nor swoon , For beauty's worth a thousand pound : Hang't , though my first true Love be gone , I've the same face for another Man ; And i'll prove honest till I die , Though money did part , etc If two young Men talk of a Wench , As they do fit on and Alebench ; She's a Good-huswife , the one replies ; But has she money ? the other cries : If she has none she's not for me , Give me the cash , hang housewifery , I love to finger that , for why , 'Tis money did part , etc By this young Girls may plainly see , How deceitful these young Men be ; They'll search a Maid from top to toe , Till all her secrets they do know ; Then if her means don't please his mind , He quickly can turn like the wind : I must have a Wife with more , he'll cry , So money , etc Such affection did that young Man bear , That he often called me his Dear : Such vows and oaths he made , 'tis known , But now he does them quite disown : But since he's gone , sing farewell he , I'll slight him more than he does me ; I'll ne'r lament , nor weep , nor cry , Though money did part , etc I am full glad we parted in truth , For since I hear he's a cross-grain'd Youth ; But had he prov'd true , though ne'r so bore , In wealth or woe i'd bore a share ; But now i'm free , i'll let that slide , And ne'r think more to be a Bride : There's nothing like to liberty , Since money did part , etc Thus have I told young Maidens all , How the weakest go to the wall ; But she that is full , and her purse well strung , She shall have Sweethearts come ding dung : It's no matter for breeding or sense , So she has but cash , he'll have the Wench ; Black or brown , he looks not o' th' die , 'Twas money did part my Love and I . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . Printed by and for W.O. A.M. and sold by C. Bates , at the Bible and Sun in Pie-corner . The Crafty MAID's APPROBATION : Wherein she shows either Black or Brown , 'Tis Money makes them straight go down ; When pretty Girls that Gold has none , Their fortune is still to lie alone . DRaw near to me young Girls so fine , Whose means and portion's like to mine : If you'll but hear what I have pen'd , 'Twill make you smile before I end : I once had Sweethearts fair and young , Tho' now from me he's fled and gone ; But i'll tell you a very good reason why , 'Twas Money did part my Love and I . When first to me a wooing he came , He did desire to know my name ; I told him my portion it was but small , He said he valued none at all : So that my favour he could win , He valued nothing else a pin ; But now he's gone and I know not why , 'Twas money , etc Yet for three years his love stood fast , And he vow'd for ever it should las But when my Friends spoke of the same , Then he was for another Dame ; Except so much money they'd give me , No Wife for him I must not be : His words he clearly did deny , So money did part my Love and I . Thus Maids may see , so may I too , It is for money young Men woo : A great deal of love they will pretend , But mark what falls out in the end ; When they find your portions are but small , Like to a snake from you they'll crawl : And to another straight they'll high , So money did part , etc If I had a head like a horse , Or a body as thick as a mill post ; So bags came but tumbling in , Then my favour every Fool wou'd win ; Or was I long snouted like a sow , Or else crookbacked like our fine cow : Have at her then , these Boys would cry , She's money enough , and what care I . Young Men don't blush , you know 'tis true , For let her name be Marry or Sue ; Tho' she was blabber-lipt , also blear-ey'd , Yet money all those faults will hide ; Nay , where she the nastiest dingiest Slut , That a Man durst not after her crack a nut ; Had she but money , house , or land , I'm sure she would not stick long a hand . Yet we whose portions are but small , Let us not be dismayed at all : Neither let us grieve , lament , nor swoon , For beauty's worth a thousand pound : Hang't , though my first true Love be gone , I've the same face for another Man ; And i'll prove honest till I die , Though money did part , etc If two young Men talk of a Wench , As they do fit on and Alebench ; She's a Good-huswife , the one replies ; But has she money ? the other cries : If she has none she's not for me , Give me the cash , hang housewifery , I love to finger that , for why , 'Tis money did part , etc By this young Girls may plainly see , How deceitful these young Men be ; They'll search a Maid from top to toe , Till all her secrets they do know ; Then if her means don't please his mind , He quickly can turn like the wind : I must have a Wife with more , he'll cry , So money , etc Such affection did that young Man bear , That he often called me his Dear : Such vows and oaths he made , 'tis known , But now he does them quite disown : But since he's gone , sing farewell he , I'll slight him more than he does me ; I'll ne'r lament , nor weep , nor cry , Though money did part , etc I am full glad we parted in truth , For since I hear he's a cross-grain'd Youth ; But had he prov'd true , though ne'r so bore , In wealth or woe i'd bore a share ; But now i'm free , i'll let that slide , And ne'r think more to be a Bride : There's nothing like to liberty , Since money did part , etc Thus have I told young Maidens all , How the weakest go to the wall ; But she that is full , and her purse well strung , She shall have Sweethearts come ding dung : It's no matter for breeding or sense , So she has but cash , he'll have the Wench ; Black or brown , he looks not o' th' die , 'Twas money did part my Love and I . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . Printed by and for W.O. A.M. and sold by C. Bates , at the Bible and Sun in Pie-corner . 