Love's Downfall : Being a sad and true Relation of a young Lady , who fell in love with her Father's Stable-groom , but their loves being discovered , was disappointed by her one Father , who would have matched her to a Knight ; but she for l [ oh ] we of the Groom , fell into Despair , and in the conclusion made herself away . Likewise how her Death shortened her Father's Days , and how her faithful Friend , the Groom , ended his own Life with a sharp Uvea - pon : Being a WARNING to all PARENTS not to Match their Children a - gainst the [ i ] r Wills , etc To the Tune of , Flora farewell : or , True Love rewarded with Loyalty , etc DRaw near young maidens every one , unto these words I shall declare , I have for you a solid Song , will grieve your heart the same to hear : There was a Lady fair and bright , her Parents had no more but she , Who was belov'd of Lord and Knight , as you after the same shall see . Her Father kept three Servingmen , that waited on him too and from ; She lov'd the chiefest among them , which was the cause of all her woe . But yet her Parents nothing knew , though they kept her in private room ; That e'er her love it was so true , or so set on the Stable-groom . For on a time a gallant Knight , that was of courage stout and free ; In him her Father took delight , did come in hope's her love to be . But because he was of mean estate , and the other a Knight of renown ; She durst not once her mind relate , cause fearing of her Father's frown . He talked , he walked , and did propound many questions unto she ; But yet her heart was after found none but the Stable-groom's to be . This gallant Knight her Parents love and favour he did so obtain ; They sought all means her heart to move , to grant him love for love again . But all their words could not prevail , though they did urge her night and day , She thought from them away to steal , and to take a voyage another way . But e'er that she could bring to pass , by her Father's strict command , Her wedding-day appointed was , she should be married out of hand . But when this news she then did hear , and she by no means could it shun ; She wrung her hands , she tore her hair , like one was frantic she did run . They tidings to her Father bring what was befallen unto she : Who wondered greatly at the thing , that such a change so soon should be . Then her Father to her came in haste , desiring her to tell him her mind , And he would ease her grief at last , a faithful friend she should him find . You have a Servingman , quoth she , the which you keep at bed and board , The which hath gained my heart from me , I love him dearer then a Lord . Then straight her Father's wrath did rise , in a close room he locked her then : Her words so much he did disdain , he turned away his Servingman . But when she herd that heavy news , her heart with sorrow it was slave ; She vowed all company to refrain , until she saw her love again . Then straight a letter she did write , and sealed the same with her own hand ; And these words she did indite , and sent it him with strict command : How happy is the country girl , the which sits spinning at her wheel ; I would give all my gold and pearl , I felt no more then she does feel . Likewise thrice happy sure is she , that her true love's presence can enjoy , Sure fortune will not favour me , but seeks my life for to destroy . Would I had been a scullian-maid , or a servant of a low degree , Then need not I have been afraid , to a loved him that would love me . But all my wishes are in vain , this loathsome life I do annoy ; For I shall ne'r see my love again , nor yet his company enjoy . So farewell friends , and kindred all , yet I am bound to pray for you , Tho' you have brought me unto thrall , ten thousand times i'll bid adieu . And farewell love that could not gain , the flower affection of thy hear I hope that we shall meet again , tho' for a while we feel the smart . Although they take my love away , yet still they cannot hurt my soul ; Sweet Jesus Christ to thee I pray , Oh Lord , forgive my sins most foul . Then in her hand she took a knife , saying , Farewell love , this is for thee ; Which put a perjod to her life , and so she died most patiently . But when her Father he did hear , and this sad news to him did come , How he had lost his daughter dear , all for the love of the Stable-groom . He pined and mourned himself away , and wished that hour had never been . Her true love he himself did slay with a weapon sharp and keen . Thus you have herd a Pattern rare , for Lovers to take warning by , 'Tis love brings many to despair , and so I end my Tragedy . Printed for A.M. W . O and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . Love's Downfall : Being a sad and true Relation of a young Lady , who fell in love with her Father's Stable-groom , but their loves being discovered , was disappointed by her one Father , who would have matched her to a Knight ; but she for l [ oh ] we of the Groom , fell into Despair , and in the conclusion made herself away . Likewise how her Death shortened her Father's Days , and how her faithful Friend , the Groom , ended his own Life with a sharp Uvea - pon : Being a WARNING to all PARENTS not to Match their Children a - gainst the [ i ] r Wills , etc To the Tune of , Flora farewell : or , True Love rewarded with Loyalty , etc DRaw near young maidens every one , unto these words I shall declare , I have for you a solid Song , will grieve your heart the same to hear : There was a Lady fair and bright , her Parents had no more but she , Who was belov'd of Lord and Knight , as you after the same shall see . Her Father kept three Servingmen , that waited on him too and from ; She lov'd the chiefest among them , which was the cause of all her woe . But yet her Parents nothing knew , though they kept her in private room ; That e'er her love it was so true , or so set on the Stable-groom . For on a time a gallant Knight , that was of courage stout and free ; In him her Father took delight , did come in hope's her love to be . But because he was of mean estate , and the other a Knight of renown ; She durst not once her mind relate , cause fearing of her Father's frown . He talked , he walked , and did propound many questions unto she ; But yet her heart was after found none but the Stable-groom's to be . This gallant Knight her Parents love and favour he did so obtain ; They sought all means her heart to move , to grant him love for love again . But all their words could not prevail , though they did urge her night and day , She thought from them away to steal , and to take a voyage another way . But e'er that she could bring to pass , by her Father's strict command , Her wedding-day appointed was , she should be married out of hand . But when this news she then did hear , and she by no means could it shun ; She wrung her hands , she tore her hair , like one was frantic she did run . They tidings to her Father bring what was befallen unto she : Who wondered greatly at the thing , that such a change so soon should be . Then her Father to her came in haste , desiring her to tell him her mind , And he would ease her grief at last , a faithful friend she should him find . You have a Servingman , quoth she , the which you keep at bed and board , The which hath gained my heart from me , I love him dearer then a Lord . Then straight her Father's wrath did rise , in a close room he locked her then : Her words so much he did disdain , he turned away his Servingman . But when she herd that heavy news , her heart with sorrow it was slave ; She vowed all company to refrain , until she saw her love again . Then straight a letter she did write , and sealed the same with her own hand ; And these words she did indite , and sent it him with strict command : How happy is the country girl , the which sits spinning at her wheel ; I would give all my gold and pearl , I felt no more then she does feel . Likewise thrice happy sure is she , that her true love's presence can enjoy , Sure fortune will not favour me , but seeks my life for to destroy . Would I had been a scullian-maid , or a servant of a low degree , Then need not I have been afraid , to a loved him that would love me . But all my wishes are in vain , this loathsome life I do annoy ; For I shall ne'r see my love again , nor yet his company enjoy . So farewell friends , and kindred all , yet I am bound to pray for you , Tho' you have brought me unto thrall , ten thousand times i'll bid adieu . And farewell love that could not gain , the flower affection of thy hear I hope that we shall meet again , tho' for a while we feel the smart . Although they take my love away , yet still they cannot hurt my soul ; Sweet Jesus Christ to thee I pray , Oh Lord , forgive my sins most foul . Then in her hand she took a knife , saying , Farewell love , this is for thee ; Which put a perjod to her life , and so she died most patiently . But when her Father he did hear , and this sad news to him did come , How he had lost his daughter dear , all for the love of the Stable-groom . He pined and mourned himself away , and wished that hour had never been . Her true love he himself did slay with a weapon sharp and keen . Thus you have herd a Pattern rare , for Lovers to take warning by , 'Tis love brings many to despair , and so I end my Tragedy . Printed for A.M. W . O and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 