THE CITY . DRaw near you factious Citizens , prepare To hear from me , what hideous fools you are , What lumps of sordid earth ; in which we find Not any least resemblance of a mind Unless to baseness , and Rebellion bent , Against the King to aid the Parliament . That Parliament whose insolence will undo Your Cities wealth , your lives and safeties too . Are you so stupid dull you cannot see How your best virtues , now are treachery : Apparent treason Murder , and the like , How with unhallowed hands you strive to strike Him whom you should your Loyalty afford ( Great CHARLES ) the blessed anointed of the Lord ; How you do daily contribute and pay Money , your truths and honours to betray . Big with fanatic thoughts , and wild desire , 'Tis you that blew up the increasing fire Of foul Rebellion ; you that only bring Armies into the field against your King , For were't not for supportment from your bags , That great and highest Court that only brags Of your vain folly , long e're this had been Punished for their bold sacrilegious sine Of actual treason , there had never come Upon this Kingdom such a Martyrdom . Armes had hang'd up as useless , and the State Retain'd its freedom , had you kept your Plate : No Keinton Battles had made Mother's curse , Made childless there the treason of your Purse , The Public purse o'th City , which must be Esteem'd the cause o'th public misery . No Drums had frighted silken Peace from out The Neighbouring Countries , nor need you about Your City with your guilded Musket go , Trayning not for good service , but for show , That the whole town may see your feathers spread Over your Hats , as the Horns do o're your Head , The Humble Parliament had never dar'd To have prescrib'd Laws to their King but spar'd Their Zeal in bringing Innovations and Distractions , o're the butious face o'th Land. They would not then have so supreamely brought Their Votes , to bring the Kingdoms peace to nought . Nor with so slight a valve looked on him King Charles , and only doted on King Pim , Nor for Authentic Doctrine have allow'd As Law , the precepts of ingenious Stroud , Hambden , nor Martin , had not then looked big Upon their King , nor Arthur Haslerigge ; Nor yet Kimbolton , on whom we now confer The style of traitorous Earl of Manchester : Secur'd by you the patrons of the cause Contemn'd his Loyally , and the Kingdoms Laws Nor misled Essex , had not you been , never Had acted on this Kingdoms theater So many tragedies , nor Warwicke sought To engross the Naval honours , no nor thought Upon any actium , so unjust unmeet As keeping from his Majesty his Fleet . This you have done all this , y'ave been the head , The very spring from whence this River spread The streams of foul Rebellion , which we know At last will drown'd you with it's overflow . You the arch traitors are , you those that stew The Kingdoms happiness , and the aleagance due To his sacred Majesty , you you that have Betrayed this Nations honour to the grave Of lasting obloquy you that have destroyed The smiling wealth of th' Ciry , and made void The good opinion which the King before Had of your Loyalties , of the faith you boar To 'th Royal steam , which still has to your great Advantage made this City their Chief Seat , Found and and seditious fools , do you think you be Wiser then all times numerous progeny , That have adorn'd your City , when did they Your harmless ancestors strive to give away Their wealth . and duty from their Sovereign Lord , To make themselves Traitors upon Record , When did they their Plate and Coin bring in , To be the cause of their own [ run ] ing ruining , They never us'd to fright their King , nor draw Tumults together to affront the Law , No nor good houses , their Corslets slept and all The Arms they us'd hung up in each men hall , They did not then Ennamel'd Muskets carry , To train in Morefields , and at Finsbury , But did in comely Archery Excel , Like honest grave Children of Adam Bell And Climme o'th Clough , now each of you will be , More then a furious William Cloudeslee . And trace the Streets with teror as if Ven , With Fulk , and Manwaring , were the only men Whom you did owe allegience to , as if they Could give you privilege to disobey . The Royal Mandate , which doe's them Proclaim , Guilty of Treason , and you of the same , As deeply stand Inspeach't , and will at last Pay dearly for't , when your vain hope's are passed All Succors , which you credit for your merit , will be afforded you by the help o'th spirit , That is the devil you serve , for heavenly powers Can never Patronise such acts as yours , Poor baffled City , but baffled by a crew Of men , which are as arrant fools as you , Surely your brains can never be so dull As not conceive this , which each empty Skull Must needs resent , how that their only aim , Is to create your City all on flame , And as the smoke and sparks up aspire , They'le fit and Laugh like Nero at the fire , Themselves have made , unless your heads be all Horns and no flesh , you needs must see the fallen . That threatens you , like Lightning to Eschew , Which Ruin 'twould be wisdom to renew , Your lost allegiance , and Repentance bring , As a fresh victim , to appease your King , For be assured who to the King's untrue , Must in their nature needs be false to you . OXFORD , Printed for William Web. 1643. THE CITY . DRaw near you factious Citizens , prepare To hear from me , what hideous fools you are , What lumps of sordid earth ; in which we find Not any least resemblance of a mind Unless to baseness , and Rebellion bent , Against the King to aid the Parliament . That Parliament whose insolence will undo Your Cities wealth , your lives and safeties too . Are you so stupid dull you cannot see How your best virtues , now are treachery : Apparent treason Murder , and the like , How with unhallowed hands you strive to strike Him whom you should your Loyalty afford ( Great CHARLES ) the blessed anointed of the Lord ; How you do daily contribute and pay Money , your truths and honours to betray . Big with fanatic thoughts , and wild desire , 'Tis you that blew up the increasing fire Of foul Rebellion ; you that only bring Armies into the field against your King , For were't not for supportment from your bags , That great and highest Court that only brags Of your vain folly , long e're this had been Punished for their bold sacrilegious sine Of actual treason , there had never come Upon this Kingdom such a Martyrdom . Armes had hang'd up as useless , and the State Retain'd its freedom , had you kept your Plate : No Keinton Battles had made Mother's curse , Made childless there the treason of your Purse , The Public purse o'th City , which must be Esteem'd the cause o'th public misery . No Drums had frighted silken Peace from out The Neighbouring Countries , nor need you about Your City with your guilded Musket go , Trayning not for good service , but for show , That the whole town may see your feathers spread Over your Hats , as the Horns do o're your Head , The Humble Parliament had never dar'd To have prescrib'd Laws to their King but spar'd Their Zeal in bringing Innovations and Distractions , o're the butious face o'th Land. They would not then have so supreamely brought Their Votes , to bring the Kingdoms peace to nought . Nor with so slight a valve looked on him King Charles , and only doted on King Pim , Nor for Authentic Doctrine have allow'd As Law , the precepts of ingenious Stroud , Hambden , nor Martin , had not then looked big Upon their King , nor Arthur Haslerigge ; Nor yet Kimbolton , on whom we now confer The style of traitorous Earl of Manchester : Secur'd by you the patrons of the cause Contemn'd his Loyally , and the Kingdoms Laws Nor misled Essex , had not you been , never Had acted on this Kingdoms theater So many tragedies , nor Warwicke sought To engross the Naval honours , no nor thought Upon any actium , so unjust unmeet As keeping from his Majesty his Fleet . This you have done all this , y'ave been the head , The very spring from whence this River spread The streams of foul Rebellion , which we know At last will drown'd you with it's overflow . You the arch traitors are , you those that stew The Kingdoms happiness , and the aleagance due To his sacred Majesty , you you that have Betrayed this Nations honour to the grave Of lasting obloquy you that have destroyed The smiling wealth of th' Ciry , and made void The good opinion which the King before Had of your Loyalties , of the faith you boar To 'th Royal steam , which still has to your great Advantage made this City their Chief Seat , Found and and seditious fools , do you think you be Wiser then all times numerous progeny , That have adorn'd your City , when did they Your harmless ancestors strive to give away Their wealth . and duty from their Sovereign Lord , To make themselves Traitors upon Record , When did they their Plate and Coin bring in , To be the cause of their own [ run ] ing ruining , They never us'd to fright their King , nor draw Tumults together to affront the Law , No nor good houses , their Corslets slept and all The Arms they us'd hung up in each men hall , They did not then Ennamel'd Muskets carry , To train in Morefields , and at Finsbury , But did in comely Archery Excel , Like honest grave Children of Adam Bell And Climme o'th Clough , now each of you will be , More then a furious William Cloudeslee . And trace the Streets with teror as if Ven , With Fulk , and Manwaring , were the only men Whom you did owe allegience to , as if they Could give you privilege to disobey . The Royal Mandate , which doe's them Proclaim , Guilty of Treason , and you of the same , As deeply stand Inspeach't , and will at last Pay dearly for't , when your vain hope's are passed All Succors , which you credit for your merit , will be afforded you by the help o'th spirit , That is the devil you serve , for heavenly powers Can never Patronise such acts as yours , Poor baffled City , but baffled by a crew Of men , which are as arrant fools as you , Surely your brains can never be so dull As not conceive this , which each empty Skull Must needs resent , how that their only aim , Is to create your City all on flame , And as the smoke and sparks up aspire , They'le fit and Laugh like Nero at the fire , Themselves have made , unless your heads be all Horns and no flesh , you needs must see the fallen . That threatens you , like Lightning to Eschew , Which Ruin 'twould be wisdom to renew , Your lost allegiance , and Repentance bring , As a fresh victim , to appease your King , For be assured who to the King's untrue , Must in their nature needs be false to you . OXFORD , Printed for William Web. 1643. 