Unfeigned Friendship , OR , The Loyalists Cordial Advice . A pleasant New Playhouse Song , now greatly in Request . Concord is that by which the world does move Nor is the World's Creator ought but love : In those Men's happiness do chiefly rest , And none without them ever yet was blessed . To a new Playhouse Tune , called , How happy's the State , or , Can Life be a Blessing , etc HOw happy's the State where no discords are breeding No strife , nor debate , no cares too exceeding ? Oh! there 'tis they'r blessed , of all things possessed , Oh! there they have happiness heap'd up in store ; There's treasure , and pleasure , & joy beyond measure , So happy are they that need not no more . Why then shou'd found mortals seek their own annoy , And open the Portals , themselves to destroy , To plague one another , and hate each his Brother , To banish the Father and ruins the Son , When treasure & pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure If concord it triumphed and discord was gone ? If each in his station wou'd keep his right sphere , Then all our vexations wou'd soon disappear : Oh! then all confusion and all strong delusion On th' wings of disorder with darkness wou'd dwell : Then pleasure , and treasure , and joys beyond measure Wou'd sorrows , and cares , and harsh discord expel . Then England be wise , and let Unity flourish , Let none be precise , their found fancies to cherish ; Thereby in their passion to trouble the Nation : For if with discretion each mortal wou'd move , Then treasure and pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure , Then all wou'd be peace , o then all wou'd be love . If none wou'd stickle at the Oath of Allegiance , No , nor Conventicle to balk their obedience , Nor at Ceremonies where decency shown is Cavell and Carp , and yet give us no reason : Then pleasure and treasure wou'd flow beyond measure , And happy , thrice happy wou'd be the bless'd season . Then the Pope might despair and the Jesuites repine , For they nothing could share if we once did but join ; If discord was vanish'd , and envy quite banish'd , Then happy , thrice happy a Nation were we , Then treasure and pleasure wou'd flow without measure , And all we cou'd wish we should instantly be . Then those golden days which the Poets once feigned , Might to our high praise once again be regained ; For were we united our cares wou'd be slighted , Then happy , how happy should we live at ease ! Then treasure and pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure , And we shou'd lie down in the vails of sweet peace . With roses o'respread , and with lilies surrounded , Where with troubles our head shou'd ne'r be confounded , But still sweet repose with soft slumber shou'd close , Our eyes and our cares , and all that disturb us : The treasure and pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure , When nothing , when nothing remain'd as could curb us . Then at last be you Wise you Whiggs , and come over , There's nought you devise more content can discover ; Be not more discontented , lest 'tis repented When it is too late , and the time it is past ; When as treasure & pleasure won't flow beyond measure For then all your hope's will be at the last cast . Then be not perverse , but let Unity flourish , Idle Dreams ne'r rehearse , nor wilfulness cherish , But be loyal , be loyal , and you'l defy all That envy and malice does plot for your harm ; Then treasure and pleasure will flow beyond measure : Obedience and Unity is the best charm To secure us from strife , and all idle debate ; Which , alas ! are too rife among many of late : Then at last be you wise , and come take my advice , And make yourselves happy whilst time does remain , That treasure and pleasure may flow without measure , That Concord and Unity ever may Reign . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . Unfeigned Friendship , OR , The Loyalists Cordial Advice . A pleasant New Playhouse Song , now greatly in Request . Concord is that by which the world does move Nor is the World's Creator ought but love : In those Men's happiness do chiefly rest , And none without them ever yet was blessed . To a new Playhouse Tune , called , How happy's the State , or , Can Life be a Blessing , etc HOw happy's the State where no discords are breeding No strife , nor debate , no cares too exceeding ? Oh! there 'tis they'r blessed , of all things possessed , Oh! there they have happiness heap'd up in store ; There's treasure , and pleasure , & joy beyond measure , So happy are they that need not no more . Why then shou'd found mortals seek their own annoy , And open the Portals , themselves to destroy , To plague one another , and hate each his Brother , To banish the Father and ruins the Son , When treasure & pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure If concord it triumphed and discord was gone ? If each in his station wou'd keep his right sphere , Then all our vexations wou'd soon disappear : Oh! then all confusion and all strong delusion On th' wings of disorder with darkness wou'd dwell : Then pleasure , and treasure , and joys beyond measure Wou'd sorrows , and cares , and harsh discord expel . Then England be wise , and let Unity flourish , Let none be precise , their found fancies to cherish ; Thereby in their passion to trouble the Nation : For if with discretion each mortal wou'd move , Then treasure and pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure , Then all wou'd be peace , o then all wou'd be love . If none wou'd stickle at the Oath of Allegiance , No , nor Conventicle to balk their obedience , Nor at Ceremonies where decency shown is Cavell and Carp , and yet give us no reason : Then pleasure and treasure wou'd flow beyond measure , And happy , thrice happy wou'd be the bless'd season . Then the Pope might despair and the Jesuites repine , For they nothing could share if we once did but join ; If discord was vanish'd , and envy quite banish'd , Then happy , thrice happy a Nation were we , Then treasure and pleasure wou'd flow without measure , And all we cou'd wish we should instantly be . Then those golden days which the Poets once feigned , Might to our high praise once again be regained ; For were we united our cares wou'd be slighted , Then happy , how happy should we live at ease ! Then treasure and pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure , And we shou'd lie down in the vails of sweet peace . With roses o'respread , and with lilies surrounded , Where with troubles our head shou'd ne'r be confounded , But still sweet repose with soft slumber shou'd close , Our eyes and our cares , and all that disturb us : The treasure and pleasure wou'd flow beyond measure , When nothing , when nothing remain'd as could curb us . Then at last be you Wise you Whiggs , and come over , There's nought you devise more content can discover ; Be not more discontented , lest 'tis repented When it is too late , and the time it is past ; When as treasure & pleasure won't flow beyond measure For then all your hope's will be at the last cast . Then be not perverse , but let Unity flourish , Idle Dreams ne'r rehearse , nor wilfulness cherish , But be loyal , be loyal , and you'l defy all That envy and malice does plot for your harm ; Then treasure and pleasure will flow beyond measure : Obedience and Unity is the best charm To secure us from strife , and all idle debate ; Which , alas ! are too rife among many of late : Then at last be you wise , and come take my advice , And make yourselves happy whilst time does remain , That treasure and pleasure may flow without measure , That Concord and Unity ever may Reign . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 