THE School of Venus . When Lusty Lads and Lasses meet , and merrily do play ; The pleasures are so strong and sweet , both Sexes Love obey . Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shade . HOw long shall I sighs and mourn , and part with my sorrowful tears , How long shall I live forlorn , possessed with troubles and fears ; Now , now I do vow and protest , the torment is great that I feel ; And I am debarr'd of rest , my sorrows I cannot reveal . O who could imagine that love should prove such a terrible pain , There's nothing my pangs can remove , while my love does show me disdain ; For passion grows stronger , and stronger and let me do all that I can ; These plagues I'le endure no longer , but will have a bout with a man . Though Father and Mother persuade , their labours will prove but in vain , My thinks I'm too old for a Maid , all people they will me disdain : My Maidenhead I will not keep , whatever to me does betide , I never shall quietly sleep , till I have a stout Lad by my side . How happy are those that are wed , and nightly do taste of that bliss , For want of which I am half dead , and hardly can meet with a kiss : No creature was ever more vexed , then I for the want of a man ; But I'le be no longer perplexed , I'le have one this night if I can . THere's many more younger then I have tasted what I do so want , It makes me put finger in eye , to think that youngmen are so scant ; And my heart it is ready to burst since I can no comfort enjoy , Of Virgins sure I am the worst , with me there is none that will toy . A youngman that herd her complain , unto her he did hastily go , He told her he'd ease her of pain , and banish her sorrow and woe : He catch'd her fast hold in his arms , and gave her sweet kisses good store , She freely could put up these harms , by no means she'd give o're . At last he so wanton did grow , that nothing could serve but the bed : She thither did willingly go , and parted with her Maidenhead : Such kissing and clipping was there , the like was scarce ever before , The Youngster could not forbear , while she cry'd for more and more . But when she the youngster had tam'd , his courage began to grow cool , His eagerness then she much blam'd , and told him he did like a fool : Had you fair and softly gone , you might have continu'd till nigh But when you were forc'd to be gone , you rob'd me of joy and Delight . And every minute , said she , to me will appear as a year , Till again I do dally with thee , who now art my Joy and my dear : No pleasure before that I knew , could be half so pleasant as this : Quoth she , I'le thy courege renew , by the charms of and amorous kiss . About his neck she laid her arms , till kisses had made him half mad , And by the force of her charms , had wearied the young wanton Lad : Then sighing to her he did say , I now must be forc'd to give o're ; No longer the wanton I'le play , this time I can kiss thee no more . Printed for Josiah Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . THE School of Venus . When Lusty Lads and Lasses meet , and merrily do play ; The pleasures are so strong and sweet , both Sexes Love obey . Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shade . HOw long shall I sighs and mourn , and part with my sorrowful tears , How long shall I live forlorn , possessed with troubles and fears ; Now , now I do vow and protest , the torment is great that I feel ; And I am debarr'd of rest , my sorrows I cannot reveal . O who could imagine that love should prove such a terrible pain , There's nothing my pangs can remove , while my love does show me disdain ; For passion grows stronger , and stronger and let me do all that I can ; These plagues I'le endure no longer , but will have a bout with a man . Though Father and Mother persuade , their labours will prove but in vain , My thinks I'm too old for a Maid , all people they will me disdain : My Maidenhead I will not keep , whatever to me does betide , I never shall quietly sleep , till I have a stout Lad by my side . How happy are those that are wed , and nightly do taste of that bliss , For want of which I am half dead , and hardly can meet with a kiss : No creature was ever more vexed , then I for the want of a man ; But I'le be no longer perplexed , I'le have one this night if I can . THere's many more younger then I have tasted what I do so want , It makes me put finger in eye , to think that youngmen are so scant ; And my heart it is ready to burst since I can no comfort enjoy , Of Virgins sure I am the worst , with me there is none that will toy . A youngman that herd her complain , unto her he did hastily go , He told her he'd ease her of pain , and banish her sorrow and woe : He catch'd her fast hold in his arms , and gave her sweet kisses good store , She freely could put up these harms , by no means she'd give o're . At last he so wanton did grow , that nothing could serve but the bed : She thither did willingly go , and parted with her Maidenhead : Such kissing and clipping was there , the like was scarce ever before , The Youngster could not forbear , while she cry'd for more and more . But when she the youngster had tam'd , his courage began to grow cool , His eagerness then she much blam'd , and told him he did like a fool : Had you fair and softly gone , you might have continu'd till nigh But when you were forc'd to be gone , you rob'd me of joy and Delight . And every minute , said she , to me will appear as a year , Till again I do dally with thee , who now art my Joy and my dear : No pleasure before that I knew , could be half so pleasant as this : Quoth she , I'le thy courege renew , by the charms of and amorous kiss . About his neck she laid her arms , till kisses had made him half mad , And by the force of her charms , had wearied the young wanton Lad : Then sighing to her he did say , I now must be forc'd to give o're ; No longer the wanton I'le play , this time I can kiss thee no more . Printed for Josiah Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 