Poor ROBIN's DREAM , Commonly called POOR CHARITY . I know no Reason but this harmless RIDDLE , May as well be Printed , as sung to a FIDDLE . To a complete Tune , well known by Musicians , and many Others : Or , a Game at Cards . HOW now , good fellow , what all amort ? I pray tell me what is the news ? Trading is dead , and I'm sorry for't , Which makes me to look worse than I use ; If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny , He hath no enjoyment if he wants Money , And Charity is not used by any . I've nothing to spend , nor nothing to lend , I have nothing to do , I tarry at home ; Sitting in my chair , drawing near to the Fire , I fell asleep like and idle drone ; And as I slept I fell into a dream , I saw a play acted without e'er a theme , But I could not tell what the play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive , And something more did understand , The Stage was the World wherein we live , And the actors were all Mankind . And when the play is ended the stage they down do fling When there will be no difference in this thing , Between a Beggar and a King . The First that acted I protest , Was Time with a glass and a scythe in his hand , With the globe of the world upon his breast , To show how the same he could command . There's a Time for to work , and a Time for to play , A Time for to borrow , and a Time for to pay , And a Time that does call us all away . Conscience , in order first takes place , And very gallantly plays his part ; He fears not to fly in a Ruler's face , Altho' it cuts him to the heart . He tells him that this is the latter age , Which puts the actors in such a rage , That they kick'd poor Conscience off the stage Plain-Dealing presently appears , In habit like a simple Man. The actors at him mock and jeer , Pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow in our company , Away with him many a Gallant did cry , For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the stage , But he was clothed in gallant attire ; He was acquainted with Youth and Age , Many his company did desire : Then they entertain him in their very breast , There he could have harbour and quietly rest ; For Dissemblers and Turn-Coats fair the best . Then comes in poor Charity , Methinks she looks wond'rous old , She quiver'd and she quak'd most piteously , It griev'd me to think she was grown so cold ; She had been both in the city and country , among the Lawyers and Nobility , But there was no room for Poor Charity . Then come in Truth not clothed in wool , But like unto youth in his white lawn sleeves , And sad , The court is full , is full , is full , Too full of Rebels , worse than Thieves : The city's full of poverty , the French are full of pride , Fanatics full of Envy , which Order can't abide , And Usurers bags are full beside . Hark! how Bellona's drums do beatrice , Methinks they go rattling thro' the town ; Hark! how they thunder thro' the street , As tho' they'd shake the chimneys down : Then comes in Mars the great God of War , And bids us face about and be as we were : But when I awaked I sat in my chair . Poor ROBIN's DREAM , Commonly called POOR CHARITY . I know no Reason but this harmless RIDDLE , May as well be Printed , as sung to a FIDDLE . To a complete Tune , well known by Musicians , and many Others : Or , a Game at Cards . HOW now , good fellow , what all amort ? I pray tell me what is the news ? Trading is dead , and I'm sorry for't , Which makes me to look worse than I use ; If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny , He hath no enjoyment if he wants Money , And Charity is not used by any . I've nothing to spend , nor nothing to lend , I have nothing to do , I tarry at home ; Sitting in my chair , drawing near to the Fire , I fell asleep like and idle drone ; And as I slept I fell into a dream , I saw a play acted without e'er a theme , But I could not tell what the play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive , And something more did understand , The Stage was the World wherein we live , And the actors were all Mankind . And when the play is ended the stage they down do fling When there will be no difference in this thing , Between a Beggar and a King . The First that acted I protest , Was Time with a glass and a scythe in his hand , With the globe of the world upon his breast , To show how the same he could command . There's a Time for to work , and a Time for to play , A Time for to borrow , and a Time for to pay , And a Time that does call us all away . Conscience , in order first takes place , And very gallantly plays his part ; He fears not to fly in a Ruler's face , Altho' it cuts him to the heart . He tells him that this is the latter age , Which puts the actors in such a rage , That they kick'd poor Conscience off the stage Plain-Dealing presently appears , In habit like a simple Man. The actors at him mock and jeer , Pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow in our company , Away with him many a Gallant did cry , For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the stage , But he was clothed in gallant attire ; He was acquainted with Youth and Age , Many his company did desire : Then they entertain him in their very breast , There he could have harbour and quietly rest ; For Dissemblers and Turn-Coats fair the best . Then comes in poor Charity , Methinks she looks wond'rous old , She quiver'd and she quak'd most piteously , It griev'd me to think she was grown so cold ; She had been both in the city and country , among the Lawyers and Nobility , But there was no room for Poor Charity . Then come in Truth not clothed in wool , But like unto youth in his white lawn sleeves , And sad , The court is full , is full , is full , Too full of Rebels , worse than Thieves : The city's full of poverty , the French are full of pride , Fanatics full of Envy , which Order can't abide , And Usurers bags are full beside . Hark! how Bellona's drums do beatrice , Methinks they go rattling thro' the town ; Hark! how they thunder thro' the street , As tho' they'd shake the chimneys down : Then comes in Mars the great God of War , And bids us face about and be as we were : But when I awaked I sat in my chair . 