The Happy Lovers : OR , The Damsel's Invitation to her Gallant to Prepare to be happy to Morrow . To a new Playhouse Tune Licensed according to Order . I. HOW happy's that Lover who after long years , Of wishing , and doubting , despairing , & sorrow , That hears his kind Mistress say , Shake off thy Tears , and prepare to be happy to morrow tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . II Jove of Io possessed , or on Diana's Breast , Was never so happy , so really blessed , As Silvia wou'd be , might he laugh love and say , Let the Sun rise in State , for tomorrow's the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . III . When after long courting and cringing , you find , The scornful young Lady has learned this Lesson , And tells you that she is resolv'd to be kind , and order you strait to prepare for the Blessing , for tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . IV. Her Heart being conquer'd , she'll cease to be coy , Her Frowns being turned to Raptures of Joy , The Lover no longer need sighs , beg , and pray , Fair Cynthia she tells him to morrow's the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . V. She finds it a Folly to struggle with Love , Whose powerful Charms her Affections did move , So that overnight a kind Kiss she will borrow , And bids him prepare to be happy tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . VI . Tho' Seven long years you may sighs and complain , Yet when the whole Prize you at length shall obtain , She soon puts a perjod to sighs , grief , and sorrow , And bids him prepare to be happy tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . VII . Young Lasses are made for their Lovers delight , And tho' they may seem many proffers to slight , Why yet after all , they will willingly say , Prepare to be happy , tomorrow's the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . VIII . When as the young Nymph with and amorous Glance , Shall smile and her Lover , and whispering say , The sweet Wedding-Jig she is willing to dance , And tells him to morrow , to morrows the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . IX . What tho' many Blushes at first did appear , At length being void of that timorous fear , The greatest of Hazards she'll willingly run , And venture to do as her Mother has done , and tells him tomorrow's the day . X. She vexes and frets that so long she was shy , which gave to her Lover much Torment and Sorrow , Says she , Now the critical Minute is nigh , and therefore prepare to be happy tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Happy Lovers : OR , The Damsel's Invitation to her Gallant to Prepare to be happy to Morrow . To a new Playhouse Tune Licensed according to Order . I. HOW happy's that Lover who after long years , Of wishing , and doubting , despairing , & sorrow , That hears his kind Mistress say , Shake off thy Tears , and prepare to be happy to morrow tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . II Jove of Io possessed , or on Diana's Breast , Was never so happy , so really blessed , As Silvia wou'd be , might he laugh love and say , Let the Sun rise in State , for tomorrow's the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . III . When after long courting and cringing , you find , The scornful young Lady has learned this Lesson , And tells you that she is resolv'd to be kind , and order you strait to prepare for the Blessing , for tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . IV. Her Heart being conquer'd , she'll cease to be coy , Her Frowns being turned to Raptures of Joy , The Lover no longer need sighs , beg , and pray , Fair Cynthia she tells him to morrow's the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . V. She finds it a Folly to struggle with Love , Whose powerful Charms her Affections did move , So that overnight a kind Kiss she will borrow , And bids him prepare to be happy tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . VI . Tho' Seven long years you may sighs and complain , Yet when the whole Prize you at length shall obtain , She soon puts a perjod to sighs , grief , and sorrow , And bids him prepare to be happy tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . VII . Young Lasses are made for their Lovers delight , And tho' they may seem many proffers to slight , Why yet after all , they will willingly say , Prepare to be happy , tomorrow's the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . VIII . When as the young Nymph with and amorous Glance , Shall smile and her Lover , and whispering say , The sweet Wedding-Jig she is willing to dance , And tells him to morrow , to morrows the day , tomorrow , tomorrow's the day . IX . What tho' many Blushes at first did appear , At length being void of that timorous fear , The greatest of Hazards she'll willingly run , And venture to do as her Mother has done , and tells him tomorrow's the day . X. She vexes and frets that so long she was shy , which gave to her Lover much Torment and Sorrow , Says she , Now the critical Minute is nigh , and therefore prepare to be happy tomorrow , prepare to be happy tomorrow . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 