Loves Unspeakable Passion : Or , The Youngman's Answer to Tender hearts of London City . Beauty over Love does triumph , causing Lovers to complain ; But 'tis pity , one so pretty , should be filled with disdain ; To a pleasant New Play-House Tune Or , Tender hearts , etc HOw can I conceal my passion , when I am used in this fashion , by that little blinking by , Who does vex me and perplex me , and my comforts does destroy . O forbear me cruel Cupid , Thou hast made me dull and stupid ; and my senses are quite los Ne're was no man , by a woman , so bewitched and strangely crossed . I am with her beauty wounded , In my thoughts I am confounded , would I had ne'r seen her face ; For with desire , I burn like fire , and she ne'r pities this my case . Come and seize me death , and ease me , Nothing else but she can please me , my soul I cannot call my own ; She hath wone me and undone me , night and day I sighs and groan . For to leave her I endeavour , Then I fallen into a Favour ; burning with a quenchless fire ; But her beauty says 'tis duty , for to languish in desire . Then I fly into a passion , And tear my hair in my vexation , I curse the day when first I see her ; Then my speech falters , my mind alters , and straight I cry she is my dear . This not common for a woman , For to boast she will undo man , yet I find she often does ; O 'tis pity one so witty , shows no favour , knows no truth . You that are in spoil delighted , Boasting that your lover's slighted , think not always thus to reign ; When age overtakes you , love forsakes you , you'l be paid for your disdain , O consider while you flourish , That your Lover you should nourish , not requite him with disdain ; For if you frown , you cast him down , and turns his pleasures into pain . And his trouble soon grows double , O 'tis better to be noble , send me then a gentle smile , That may ease me , not displease me , but my sorrows all beguile . Then will I in heart adore thee , Like and image stand before thee , fearing to displease thine eye ; Then come and cherish , or I perish , like a fainting Lover die . Spare my life dear , I entreat thee , With sweet language I will greet thee for to ease my mortal pain ; Then forever , I'le endeavour to forget thy gross disdain . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel , in Guil-spur-street . Loves Unspeakable Passion : Or , The Youngman's Answer to Tender hearts of London City . Beauty over Love does triumph , causing Lovers to complain ; But 'tis pity , one so pretty , should be filled with disdain ; To a pleasant New Play-House Tune Or , Tender hearts , etc HOw can I conceal my passion , when I am used in this fashion , by that little blinking by , Who does vex me and perplex me , and my comforts does destroy . O forbear me cruel Cupid , Thou hast made me dull and stupid ; and my senses are quite los Ne're was no man , by a woman , so bewitched and strangely crossed . I am with her beauty wounded , In my thoughts I am confounded , would I had ne'r seen her face ; For with desire , I burn like fire , and she ne'r pities this my case . Come and seize me death , and ease me , Nothing else but she can please me , my soul I cannot call my own ; She hath wone me and undone me , night and day I sighs and groan . For to leave her I endeavour , Then I fallen into a Favour ; burning with a quenchless fire ; But her beauty says 'tis duty , for to languish in desire . Then I fly into a passion , And tear my hair in my vexation , I curse the day when first I see her ; Then my speech falters , my mind alters , and straight I cry she is my dear . This not common for a woman , For to boast she will undo man , yet I find she often does ; O 'tis pity one so witty , shows no favour , knows no truth . You that are in spoil delighted , Boasting that your lover's slighted , think not always thus to reign ; When age overtakes you , love forsakes you , you'l be paid for your disdain , O consider while you flourish , That your Lover you should nourish , not requite him with disdain ; For if you frown , you cast him down , and turns his pleasures into pain . And his trouble soon grows double , O 'tis better to be noble , send me then a gentle smile , That may ease me , not displease me , but my sorrows all beguile . Then will I in heart adore thee , Like and image stand before thee , fearing to displease thine eye ; Then come and cherish , or I perish , like a fainting Lover die . Spare my life dear , I entreat thee , With sweet language I will greet thee for to ease my mortal pain ; Then forever , I'le endeavour to forget thy gross disdain . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel , in Guil-spur-street . 