And Excellent New Song , Called , The Praise of Women ; OR , Women , Wine , Music . Being a New Play-House SONG , to a pleasant Tune . HOw lovely's a woman before she's enjoy'd , when the spirits are strong , & the fancy not cloy'd We admire 'ery part , though never so plain , which when thoroughly possessed we quickly disdain . Each Lady we court , and beg they'd be kind , And when they consent for to be of our mind , We kiss and embrace , and do what's to be done , When their Bellies are full , we leave them forlorn All Women we see , we hope to enjoy , We think ourselves happy , if they prove not coy , Each feature we praise , and admire their parts , tho' to the next face , we do proffer our hearts . So drinking we love too , just at the same rate , For when we are at it we foolishly prate ; What Acts we have done , and set up for wit , But next morning pains , our pleasures do quit . We drink all the morning both Coffee and Tea , And think there is none live more sober than we , till to dinner we move , then the glass must go round Full Bumpers of Wine , till our senses are drown'd , then about midnight we reeling home go , And neither the Watchmen or Constable know , thus wine makes us valiant , for when we are drunk , We draw at each man for a nasty town Punk . But Musics a pleasure , that tires not so soon , 'tis pleasant in morning , this welcome at Noon , this charming at nights , to sing Catches in parts , It diverts our dull hours , and rejoices our hearts . But Music alone , without Women and Wine , Will govern but dully , though never so fine ; therefore by consent , we'll enjoy them all three , Wine & Music for you , and the Women for me . For still of all pleasures , there's none can compare , to the joys of a Woman that's charming and fair , She diverts us all day with pleasing delight , then Raptures of Joy she yields all the night . Printed by and for A.M. And Excellent New Song , Called , The Praise of Women ; OR , Women , Wine , Music . Being a New Play-House SONG , to a pleasant Tune . HOw lovely's a woman before she's enjoy'd , when the spirits are strong , & the fancy not cloy'd We admire 'ery part , though never so plain , which when thoroughly possessed we quickly disdain . Each Lady we court , and beg they'd be kind , And when they consent for to be of our mind , We kiss and embrace , and do what's to be done , When their Bellies are full , we leave them forlorn All Women we see , we hope to enjoy , We think ourselves happy , if they prove not coy , Each feature we praise , and admire their parts , tho' to the next face , we do proffer our hearts . So drinking we love too , just at the same rate , For when we are at it we foolishly prate ; What Acts we have done , and set up for wit , But next morning pains , our pleasures do quit . We drink all the morning both Coffee and Tea , And think there is none live more sober than we , till to dinner we move , then the glass must go round Full Bumpers of Wine , till our senses are drown'd , then about midnight we reeling home go , And neither the Watchmen or Constable know , thus wine makes us valiant , for when we are drunk , We draw at each man for a nasty town Punk . But Musics a pleasure , that tires not so soon , 'tis pleasant in morning , this welcome at Noon , this charming at nights , to sing Catches in parts , It diverts our dull hours , and rejoices our hearts . But Music alone , without Women and Wine , Will govern but dully , though never so fine ; therefore by consent , we'll enjoy them all three , Wine & Music for you , and the Women for me . For still of all pleasures , there's none can compare , to the joys of a Woman that's charming and fair , She diverts us all day with pleasing delight , then Raptures of Joy she yields all the night . Printed by and for A.M. 