The Highway Hector , Or , A very quaint Poem in which much is said , Concerning the manner and tricks of the trade To the tune of , Hunger and cold , or Packingtons pound . I Am a brave Padder , You ne're knew a Madder , From Paddington Peartree Turn'd over the Ladder . I speak French and Latin , I wear Plush and Satin , And in my profession I grow fat and batten , I go like a Gallant in all sorts of weather , And seem to be valiant in Buff , Coat and Feather ; I keep a Gray Mare , and with raw Beef I nurse her , To fit her for stand , and deliver your purse Sir . I keep a good Jade . and I feed a fine Whore , I deal in no trade , yet I never was poor , I travel through Corn and whole Acres of fruit , And yet I was born unto never a foe The Partridge that's neat , and the Pheasant that's fine , Does serve for my meat and at midnight I dine ; It is very seldom my feeding is worse , All this comes by stand , etc If my punk do but falter , or be out of case , My Hostesses daughter does jump in the place ; For Prigging and Padding and nimming and stabbing , Does serve to supply me with drinking and drapping : But if I can find never a young Female elf To please me , then have at my Hostess her self , If she be not willing I bang her and curse her , All this comes by stand , etc They fit up and wait and attend me by turns , If I stay too late the poor Innkeeper mourns ; The Cookmaid will not be seduced to since , Although she be lov'd by the chief Chamberlin , Nor will she submit to let any man taste her , When she is provoked by the power of her Master , Who dares not displease me so far as to force her , All this comes by stand , and deliver your purse Sir . The second Part , To the same Tune . WHen daylight does dawn I knock and they bustle , The Hostler does yawn and the Geldings do justle : My wine is provided , my horse is rub'd down , And they are all guided like men of my own : They all give attendance both Knaveship and whoreship , And keep themselves wakening to wait on my worship : If the Maid fallen asleep all the servants do curse her , And this comes by stand etc When want does importune , I borrow of many , But never have the fortune to pay back a penny : If I meet and old Judge . I possess him with grief , As if I were the Justice and he were the thief : Of all trees I come to I fear none but one tree , And dare not be try'd by the King and the Country : Such trial is worse then a nimble-tongu'd wife sir , When Judges cry stand and deliver your Life sir . My trade is as lawful if taken in one sense , As many that measure their wares by their conscience , For 'tis in the conscience no viler a vice To pinch them in padding as cheat 'em in price : I think when I rob a precise city Brother , 'Tis cheat upon cheat , and one cheat cheats another : Then tell me in conscience if this be not worse Then boldly cry stand , etc Those Rogues that are brewing of war 'gainst their King , Sincerely are doing the very same thing : With angles of zeal they study and labour , To plunder and steal from their very next neighbour , While we are obliged and bound by the Charters Of Paddington law not to smoke our own quarters . Then tell me good people if this be not worse , Then they that cry stand , etc If any by dodging would traffic in my way , Let him come to my lodging my name's Rob-in Highway : I'le prove my profession though you think it strange ; More honest then many that cheat on the change : Then filtch in the slyness of galling and sobbing , Much more then those gallants who purchase by robbing , And therefore in Reason it seems to be worse , Then mine that cry stand , etc Our way is more level more honest and ev'ner , Then either the Usurer , Broker or Scriv'ner : They get men's Estates and totally rout e'm , While Padder takes nothing but what is about 'em : Our way of defeating though free from such slyness , Is better then cheating with shadows of kindness : And therefore most freely confess that 'tis worser , Then mine that cries stand and deliver your purse sir . Licensed according to Order . Printed for W. Gilbertson without Newgate . The Highway Hector , Or , A very quaint Poem in which much is said , Concerning the manner and tricks of the trade To the tune of , Hunger and cold , or Packingtons pound . I Am a brave Padder , You ne're knew a Madder , From Paddington Peartree Turn'd over the Ladder . I speak French and Latin , I wear Plush and Satin , And in my profession I grow fat and batten , I go like a Gallant in all sorts of weather , And seem to be valiant in Buff , Coat and Feather ; I keep a Gray Mare , and with raw Beef I nurse her , To fit her for stand , and deliver your purse Sir . I keep a good Jade . and I feed a fine Whore , I deal in no trade , yet I never was poor , I travel through Corn and whole Acres of fruit , And yet I was born unto never a foe The Partridge that's neat , and the Pheasant that's fine , Does serve for my meat and at midnight I dine ; It is very seldom my feeding is worse , All this comes by stand , etc If my punk do but falter , or be out of case , My Hostesses daughter does jump in the place ; For Prigging and Padding and nimming and stabbing , Does serve to supply me with drinking and drapping : But if I can find never a young Female elf To please me , then have at my Hostess her self , If she be not willing I bang her and curse her , All this comes by stand , etc They fit up and wait and attend me by turns , If I stay too late the poor Innkeeper mourns ; The Cookmaid will not be seduced to since , Although she be lov'd by the chief Chamberlin , Nor will she submit to let any man taste her , When she is provoked by the power of her Master , Who dares not displease me so far as to force her , All this comes by stand , and deliver your purse Sir . The second Part , To the same Tune . WHen daylight does dawn I knock and they bustle , The Hostler does yawn and the Geldings do justle : My wine is provided , my horse is rub'd down , And they are all guided like men of my own : They all give attendance both Knaveship and whoreship , And keep themselves wakening to wait on my worship : If the Maid fallen asleep all the servants do curse her , And this comes by stand etc When want does importune , I borrow of many , But never have the fortune to pay back a penny : If I meet and old Judge . I possess him with grief , As if I were the Justice and he were the thief : Of all trees I come to I fear none but one tree , And dare not be try'd by the King and the Country : Such trial is worse then a nimble-tongu'd wife sir , When Judges cry stand and deliver your Life sir . My trade is as lawful if taken in one sense , As many that measure their wares by their conscience , For 'tis in the conscience no viler a vice To pinch them in padding as cheat 'em in price : I think when I rob a precise city Brother , 'Tis cheat upon cheat , and one cheat cheats another : Then tell me in conscience if this be not worse Then boldly cry stand , etc Those Rogues that are brewing of war 'gainst their King , Sincerely are doing the very same thing : With angles of zeal they study and labour , To plunder and steal from their very next neighbour , While we are obliged and bound by the Charters Of Paddington law not to smoke our own quarters . Then tell me good people if this be not worse , Then they that cry stand , etc If any by dodging would traffic in my way , Let him come to my lodging my name's Rob-in Highway : I'le prove my profession though you think it strange ; More honest then many that cheat on the change : Then filtch in the slyness of galling and sobbing , Much more then those gallants who purchase by robbing , And therefore in Reason it seems to be worse , Then mine that cry stand , etc Our way is more level more honest and ev'ner , Then either the Usurer , Broker or Scriv'ner : They get men's Estates and totally rout e'm , While Padder takes nothing but what is about 'em : Our way of defeating though free from such slyness , Is better then cheating with shadows of kindness : And therefore most freely confess that 'tis worser , Then mine that cries stand and deliver your purse sir . Licensed according to Order . Printed for W. Gilbertson without Newgate . 