Stand too't WHETSTON-PARK Ladies : or ; The Country Lasses farewell to Sorrow . Maids , here's a Caution how to gain rich Talents , Do , as I've done , keep Company with Gallants ; By which I'm rais'd from mean to high degree , In being to young Heirs and Gallants free : I fear no Colours but will stand it out , The worst can be , is the Covent-Garden-Gout . To the Tune of , Never a Penny of Money . I Am a brave Lass , and I Travel'd about , with a fa la la la le le la le ro , And behav'd myself bravely upon the Road , with a fa la la la le le la le ro ; And was welcome to every place where I did come , And many a brave Gallant did look me upon , But I have a fine trick for to play with my own : with a fa la la le le la le ro . I prosper'd so well that to London I came , with a fa la , etc For that is a place to get a good name , with a fa la , etc And there I have god a place unto my mind , And many brave Gallants do me find : I'le promise unto them I'le not be unkind : with a fa la , etc Now a Crown or and Angel I have in the neck , with a fa la , etc For they find that I bravely can do the trick , with a fa la , etc I have my Silk-Gowns , and my Scarfs to wear , And many a brave Gallant does call me their Dear , They see I am so willing to let out my Ware . with a fa la , etc When I was in the Country I thought of a thing , with a fa la , etc That it was a great shame to fit there for to Spin : with a fa la , etc And Whigg , Whey , and Buttermilk was but course diet , For in my mind I could never be quiet , Now I am in London I live for more rio with a fa la , etc Of Capon and Coney I feed on great store , with a fa la , etc And now I forgotten that e're I was poor , with a fa la , etc I care not for Sister , I care not for Brother , I live like a Lady as well as another , And all with a mark that is after my Mother : with a fa la , etc My Money comes easily into my Lap , with a fa la , etc I am a found Country-Girl , and give no one a Clap , with a fa la , etc Five Crowns at a time I have in my hand , And all for fine kisses they have at command , This is gallant profit I do understand . with a fa la la le le la le ro . THough I was but simply born in degree , with a fa la , etc My Father did best in getting of me , with a fa la , etc He god me so pretty and neat to the eye , That any that comes will hardly pass by , They venture a Guinney or too for to try , with a fa la , etc I russel in Silk and I trample about , with a fa la , etc I tune up my Notes for to make them look out , with a fa la , etc And when I have caught a brave spark in my lure , That money about him is mine to be sure , Oh this kissing is costly it had need to be pure . with a fa la , etc I'le send for my Sister she shall be of my Trade , with a fa la , etc She's as pretty as I am , and is as well made , with a fa la , etc And not live in the Country to abide so much itch , But come up to London and learn to be rich , What if now and then she do venture a touch , with a fa la , etc Nothing venture , nothing have , with a fa la , etc I am all for brave Gamesters , I scorn a poor knave , with a fa la , etc With my eye I command them at every wink , And Sack and Burn'd Claret they give me to drink , Beside I am foremost with great store of Chinck . with a fa la , etc Who live in the Country as I did before , with a fa la , etc For a Groat a day that's very poor , with a fa la , etc When Crowns and Angels are nothing to me , To pleasure young Gallants that be free , If I make use of my own , what is that to thee , with a fa la , etc So I can hold up my trade , & live free from all sorrow , with a fa la , etc If I have no money o're-night , I'le have some tomor-row with a fa la , etc And call for a Coach , and jog it about , With ranting brave Gallants come in and go out , If I escape but the Covent-Garden Gout . with a fa la la le le la le ro . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smith-field . Stand too't WHETSTON-PARK Ladies : or ; The Country Lasses farewell to Sorrow . Maids , here's a Caution how to gain rich Talents , Do , as I've done , keep Company with Gallants ; By which I'm rais'd from mean to high degree , In being to young Heirs and Gallants free : I fear no Colours but will stand it out , The worst can be , is the Covent-Garden-Gout . To the Tune of , Never a Penny of Money . I Am a brave Lass , and I Travel'd about , with a fa la la la le le la le ro , And behav'd myself bravely upon the Road , with a fa la la la le le la le ro ; And was welcome to every place where I did come , And many a brave Gallant did look me upon , But I have a fine trick for to play with my own : with a fa la la le le la le ro . I prosper'd so well that to London I came , with a fa la , etc For that is a place to get a good name , with a fa la , etc And there I have god a place unto my mind , And many brave Gallants do me find : I'le promise unto them I'le not be unkind : with a fa la , etc Now a Crown or and Angel I have in the neck , with a fa la , etc For they find that I bravely can do the trick , with a fa la , etc I have my Silk-Gowns , and my Scarfs to wear , And many a brave Gallant does call me their Dear , They see I am so willing to let out my Ware . with a fa la , etc When I was in the Country I thought of a thing , with a fa la , etc That it was a great shame to fit there for to Spin : with a fa la , etc And Whigg , Whey , and Buttermilk was but course diet , For in my mind I could never be quiet , Now I am in London I live for more rio with a fa la , etc Of Capon and Coney I feed on great store , with a fa la , etc And now I forgotten that e're I was poor , with a fa la , etc I care not for Sister , I care not for Brother , I live like a Lady as well as another , And all with a mark that is after my Mother : with a fa la , etc My Money comes easily into my Lap , with a fa la , etc I am a found Country-Girl , and give no one a Clap , with a fa la , etc Five Crowns at a time I have in my hand , And all for fine kisses they have at command , This is gallant profit I do understand . with a fa la la le le la le ro . THough I was but simply born in degree , with a fa la , etc My Father did best in getting of me , with a fa la , etc He god me so pretty and neat to the eye , That any that comes will hardly pass by , They venture a Guinney or too for to try , with a fa la , etc I russel in Silk and I trample about , with a fa la , etc I tune up my Notes for to make them look out , with a fa la , etc And when I have caught a brave spark in my lure , That money about him is mine to be sure , Oh this kissing is costly it had need to be pure . with a fa la , etc I'le send for my Sister she shall be of my Trade , with a fa la , etc She's as pretty as I am , and is as well made , with a fa la , etc And not live in the Country to abide so much itch , But come up to London and learn to be rich , What if now and then she do venture a touch , with a fa la , etc Nothing venture , nothing have , with a fa la , etc I am all for brave Gamesters , I scorn a poor knave , with a fa la , etc With my eye I command them at every wink , And Sack and Burn'd Claret they give me to drink , Beside I am foremost with great store of Chinck . with a fa la , etc Who live in the Country as I did before , with a fa la , etc For a Groat a day that's very poor , with a fa la , etc When Crowns and Angels are nothing to me , To pleasure young Gallants that be free , If I make use of my own , what is that to thee , with a fa la , etc So I can hold up my trade , & live free from all sorrow , with a fa la , etc If I have no money o're-night , I'le have some tomor-row with a fa la , etc And call for a Coach , and jog it about , With ranting brave Gallants come in and go out , If I escape but the Covent-Garden Gout . with a fa la la le le la le ro . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smith-field . 