The Discontented Lady : A New SONG much in Request . To a New Tune much in Request at Court and the Play-House . I . HOw vile are the sordid Intrigues of the Town , cheating and lying perpetually sway , From the blue cap to the politic gown , a plotting and sotting they wast the day ; All their Discourse is of Foreign Affairs , The French and the Wars Is always their Cry ; Marriage alas ! is declining , And I a poor Virgin lie pining , a Curse of their Jarring , what Luck have I . II I thought a young Trader by ogling Charms , into my Conjugal Fetters to bring . I planted my snare too , for one that lov'd Arms , but found his Design was another thing . From the Court Province down to the dull Cits , Both Cullies and Wits , Of Marriage are shy ; Great are the Sins of the Nation , A Shame of the wretched Occasion , a curse of the Monsieurs , what Luck have I . III . A Counsellor promis'd to give me a Fee , and swore he would make me a Lady of Sport But I was resolv'd not a Harlot to be , if he could have made me Lass of the Court . When that he saw how I was inclin'd , And what I design'd , He made me Reply , Virgins alas ! are too cruel , Oh! be kind to me , my dear Jewel , a curse of your whining I then did cry . IV. The next a young Seaman , of Honour and Fame , he daily contrived my Love for to win ; And swore if he could but my Favour obtain , great Treasure & Riches unto me he'd bring : But when he saw that I would not yield , Unto him the Field , Unless he would wed ; He stood like a Man was enchanted , Sure never was Seaman so daunted , because I refus'd him my Maidenhead . V. Of late a young Scholar from Oxford did come , whom for a Husband I thought to entrap ; But I did find him too hard to be wone , which makes me complain at my cruel mishap : All Men alike of Marriage are shy , Which makes me to cry , A Shame of them all ! Thus to leave Wedlock declining , And I a poor Virgin lie pining ; when that my Request it is but so small . VI . The Counsellor , Soldier , and Countryman too , daily from Tavern to Coffee-House go ; There they do plot and contrive what to do , which makes my poor Heart be so full of Woe : They talk of Religion , though little they have ; But how to live brave , They always do strive , And leave a poor Virgin complaining , While they their Designs are obtaining , Sure there is no honest Men scarce alive . Printed for C. Bates , at the White Heart in West-smithfield . The Discontented Lady : A New SONG much in Request . To a New Tune much in Request at Court and the Play-House . I . HOw vile are the sordid Intrigues of the Town , cheating and lying perpetually sway , From the blue cap to the politic gown , a plotting and sotting they wast the day ; All their Discourse is of Foreign Affairs , The French and the Wars Is always their Cry ; Marriage alas ! is declining , And I a poor Virgin lie pining , a Curse of their Jarring , what Luck have I . II I thought a young Trader by ogling Charms , into my Conjugal Fetters to bring . I planted my snare too , for one that lov'd Arms , but found his Design was another thing . From the Court Province down to the dull Cits , Both Cullies and Wits , Of Marriage are shy ; Great are the Sins of the Nation , A Shame of the wretched Occasion , a curse of the Monsieurs , what Luck have I . III . A Counsellor promis'd to give me a Fee , and swore he would make me a Lady of Sport But I was resolv'd not a Harlot to be , if he could have made me Lass of the Court . When that he saw how I was inclin'd , And what I design'd , He made me Reply , Virgins alas ! are too cruel , Oh! be kind to me , my dear Jewel , a curse of your whining I then did cry . IV. The next a young Seaman , of Honour and Fame , he daily contrived my Love for to win ; And swore if he could but my Favour obtain , great Treasure & Riches unto me he'd bring : But when he saw that I would not yield , Unto him the Field , Unless he would wed ; He stood like a Man was enchanted , Sure never was Seaman so daunted , because I refus'd him my Maidenhead . V. Of late a young Scholar from Oxford did come , whom for a Husband I thought to entrap ; But I did find him too hard to be wone , which makes me complain at my cruel mishap : All Men alike of Marriage are shy , Which makes me to cry , A Shame of them all ! Thus to leave Wedlock declining , And I a poor Virgin lie pining ; when that my Request it is but so small . VI . The Counsellor , Soldier , and Countryman too , daily from Tavern to Coffee-House go ; There they do plot and contrive what to do , which makes my poor Heart be so full of Woe : They talk of Religion , though little they have ; But how to live brave , They always do strive , And leave a poor Virgin complaining , While they their Designs are obtaining , Sure there is no honest Men scarce alive . Printed for C. Bates , at the White Heart in West-smithfield . 