The Courageous Loyalists , Or , A Health to the Royal Family . To the Tune of , Rouse up Great Monarch . DRown'd Melancholy in a Glass of Wine , We will be Jolly , let the Miser pine : Boys Drink about , we'l make the Tavern Roar , When the Bumper's out , we'l call again for more ; It makes good Blood to run within our Veins , It puts Good Reason also in our Brains : He that will deny it , hanged let him be , Here's a Health to all the Royal Progeny . II Boys we'l be merry whatsoe're ensue , Drink Sack and Sherry till the Sky looks blue ; Let the Whiggs lament , and whiningly complain , We with one consent , drink to the Royal Train : Heavens bless Great Charles , and the Duke of York , All the Lords and Earls , and every Royal Spark ; Down with every Factious , flaming , whining Crew , Give them Rope and Hanging , since it is their endue . III . Drawer bring us Wine , fill the other Bowl , Let us loose no time , for he's and honest Soul That does love his Prince , and the ancient Laws , He is a man of sense , he shall have our applause : As for mighty Charles , his Renowned Name , Let it be Recorded in the Books of Fame : But he that will deny Allegiance to the King , Hang him let him die , and in a Halter swing . Brave Noble Zions , be you stout and true , Stand in Defiance of the Rabble Crew ; They that design'd our Laws to undermine , We will make them fly , like Chaff before the Wind : Those that did consent , yielding to allow , Those that did invent the Association Vow , To conceal their Treason , hang 'um let them swing , Here's a Health to Charles , the most Renowned King . V. Now sure the Whiggs , they wlll no more Rebel , Old Crumwels Piggs that sucked up all the swell : Their hope's are drowned , as we plainly see , Some were confounded in their Villainy : Tommy he is fled , Tony he is Dead , Some of them was Hang'd , others lost their Head : Catch in conclusion , pay'd them their Arrears , Since this Confusion how they hang their Ears ! VI . Then learn to bow , and in Obedience stand , To Ceasar now the Glory of the Land : None can convince , for what I speak is true , He is a Prince of love and pity too : Those that are Loyal , they are perfect free , There's no denial of their Liberty : Then true hearts be merry , make the Tavern Ring , Fling up your Caps , and cry , God Save the KING . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street without New-gate . The Courageous Loyalists , Or , A Health to the Royal Family . To the Tune of , Rouse up Great Monarch . DRown'd Melancholy in a Glass of Wine , We will be Jolly , let the Miser pine : Boys Drink about , we'l make the Tavern Roar , When the Bumper's out , we'l call again for more ; It makes good Blood to run within our Veins , It puts Good Reason also in our Brains : He that will deny it , hanged let him be , Here's a Health to all the Royal Progeny . II Boys we'l be merry whatsoe're ensue , Drink Sack and Sherry till the Sky looks blue ; Let the Whiggs lament , and whiningly complain , We with one consent , drink to the Royal Train : Heavens bless Great Charles , and the Duke of York , All the Lords and Earls , and every Royal Spark ; Down with every Factious , flaming , whining Crew , Give them Rope and Hanging , since it is their endue . III . Drawer bring us Wine , fill the other Bowl , Let us loose no time , for he's and honest Soul That does love his Prince , and the ancient Laws , He is a man of sense , he shall have our applause : As for mighty Charles , his Renowned Name , Let it be Recorded in the Books of Fame : But he that will deny Allegiance to the King , Hang him let him die , and in a Halter swing . Brave Noble Zions , be you stout and true , Stand in Defiance of the Rabble Crew ; They that design'd our Laws to undermine , We will make them fly , like Chaff before the Wind : Those that did consent , yielding to allow , Those that did invent the Association Vow , To conceal their Treason , hang 'um let them swing , Here's a Health to Charles , the most Renowned King . V. Now sure the Whiggs , they wlll no more Rebel , Old Crumwels Piggs that sucked up all the swell : Their hope's are drowned , as we plainly see , Some were confounded in their Villainy : Tommy he is fled , Tony he is Dead , Some of them was Hang'd , others lost their Head : Catch in conclusion , pay'd them their Arrears , Since this Confusion how they hang their Ears ! VI . Then learn to bow , and in Obedience stand , To Ceasar now the Glory of the Land : None can convince , for what I speak is true , He is a Prince of love and pity too : Those that are Loyal , they are perfect free , There's no denial of their Liberty : Then true hearts be merry , make the Tavern Ring , Fling up your Caps , and cry , God Save the KING . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street without New-gate . 