And Epistle to Mr. Dryden . DRYDEN , thy Wit has catterwauld too long , Now Lero , Lero , is the only Song . What Singing , Dancing , Interludes of late Stuff , and set off our goodly Farce of State ? Not Abbevill can turn a deep intrigue , Till first well warm'd with Bishop Talgol's Jig . Wem cannot sleep , or if a Nap he takes , His Dream some old Tressilian Ballad breaks . But was e'er seen the like , in Prose or Metre , To this mad Play , or work of Father P ? At Court no longer Punchionello takes , Each Scene , Part , Cue , mishapen to the Mac's . Such Plot , and the Catastrophe is such , We must be either Irish all , or Dutch . Our very Judges in Westminster-Hall , Like their old Roof , are Irish Timber all . And ( bless us ! ) Irish Wolves are brought to keep The Nation , grown now all such silly Sheep ; Such errant Asses , errant Cattle made , Or to be yoak'd , or saddl'd , fleec'd , or flea'd . O Martyrs Son ! thy destiny is shown , Such props are for a Scaffold , not a Throne : So Juno , in her impotence of rage , By Heaven deny'd , did Hell's black Powers engage ; Yet sped the Hero : Jove and Fate were strong ; Religious care ! He took his Gods along : But hark , Oh hark , the Belgic Lion roars , And shakes afar the French and British Shores : One Brandy drinks , one mad with Prophecies : Lord ! what they tell us of some Prince from Freeze ; Arms , and the Man they sing , no French finess , But hearty Blows , and Brandenburg Address . Hence Vigor , and our Figure come again , We rise , and walk , all true erected men . The force of those Circaean Cups subdu'd , And the wild Charms our new Armida brew'd , The Witchcraft he ( our true Rinaldo ) broke , And grubs the base pretenders to his stock . But o , what Spirit of Deceit afar , Possess'd our Pulpits , and bewitch'd the Bar ? What Bane , what Mischief on poor Mortals shed By Vermin , from the Laws corruption bred ? Tho to their Irish Roof no Cobwebs cleave , Below what strife and endless toils they weave : Wanting brave Strength to strangle men to death , What Frauds they hide ! What Venom underneath ! And when some shorter course to Murder's shown , Cry , Oh that ( luscious ) Point ! they gain'd the Crown . Sons of the Pulpit the same measures keep , And of that same stumm'd Cup have drunk as deep . Agog for some odd transubstantiate thing , Chimera reign , and Metaphysic King , Sublim'd to School Divinity texreams , Their Brains would crow with Patriarchal Dreams . So high from solid honest wisdom blown , They'd have some Hippo-Centaur on the Throne . Not Law-ordain'd , but by some God appointed , Not Lay-elected , but be Priest-anointed . Away this Goblin Witchcraft , Priestcraft-Prince ; Give us a King , Divine , by Law and Sense . Now Bar and Pulpit to Dragoons a sport , Their Cause is carried to the last Resort . Princes in more compendious method teach , Force is their way ; let old Apostles preach . What's stablish'd Law , where standing Armies come ; Or who'll talk Gospel to a Kettle Drum ? When God would hear , where Giants did oppress , The several Nations had their Hercules . So were the Horns of grizzly violence broke , So People freed from triple Geryon's yoke . The various Snake in Lerna-Lough that bred , That loll'd and hiss'd to death , at every head , Nemaean Lion , Erymanthian Boar , In Bogs that wallow , and on Hills that roar : All by his Godlike Prowess done away , Their lawless rule , and that Gigantic sway . In vain while this high Virtue Nations sought , The Nassau-House were never yet without . Nor is confin'd to Provinces their care , Their generous labour neighbouring Kingdoms share . Here the foul Heard flee from his lifted hand , That long had made a Stable of the Land. The Monster of the Lough , new Lerna-Plague ( But scarce in head ) the Bog-begotten Teague , The ravenous kind , the Harpies sharp for prey , With Birds obscene , and uncouth to the day . No Den , no Ditch , no rousting for 'em more , Now , now is come our Hercules ashore . Vile Fraud dispell'd , and superstitious Mists : He from our Temple drives all knavish Priests . Then warmer Wallop , in due Scarlet shown , To Coffee-Dick bequeathes his rusty Gown . O Dryden , if this Hercules were thine , How wou'd his Club , and Atlas-shoulders shine : How wou'dst thou all our Maids of Honour fright , With naughty Tale , of Fifty in a night ? Howe'er , no more let Xavier mar thy Pen , No Miracle to Forty thousand Men . When Law , and bald Divinity begins , Why then , the marvel that a Poet sins ? FINIS . Exeter , Nov. 5. 1688. And Epistle to Mr. Dryden . DRYDEN , thy Wit has catterwauld too long , Now Lero , Lero , is the only Song . What Singing , Dancing , Interludes of late Stuff , and set off our goodly Farce of State ? Not Abbevill can turn a deep intrigue , Till first well warm'd with Bishop Talgol's Jig . Wem cannot sleep , or if a Nap he takes , His Dream some old Tressilian Ballad breaks . But was e'er seen the like , in Prose or Metre , To this mad Play , or work of Father P ? At Court no longer Punchionello takes , Each Scene , Part , Cue , mishapen to the Mac's . Such Plot , and the Catastrophe is such , We must be either Irish all , or Dutch . Our very Judges in Westminster-Hall , Like their old Roof , are Irish Timber all . And ( bless us ! ) Irish Wolves are brought to keep The Nation , grown now all such silly Sheep ; Such errant Asses , errant Cattle made , Or to be yoak'd , or saddl'd , fleec'd , or flea'd . O Martyrs Son ! thy destiny is shown , Such props are for a Scaffold , not a Throne : So Juno , in her impotence of rage , By Heaven deny'd , did Hell's black Powers engage ; Yet sped the Hero : Jove and Fate were strong ; Religious care ! He took his Gods along : But hark , Oh hark , the Belgic Lion roars , And shakes afar the French and British Shores : One Brandy drinks , one mad with Prophecies : Lord ! what they tell us of some Prince from Freeze ; Arms , and the Man they sing , no French finess , But hearty Blows , and Brandenburg Address . Hence Vigor , and our Figure come again , We rise , and walk , all true erected men . The force of those Circaean Cups subdu'd , And the wild Charms our new Armida brew'd , The Witchcraft he ( our true Rinaldo ) broke , And grubs the base pretenders to his stock . But o , what Spirit of Deceit afar , Possess'd our Pulpits , and bewitch'd the Bar ? What Bane , what Mischief on poor Mortals shed By Vermin , from the Laws corruption bred ? Tho to their Irish Roof no Cobwebs cleave , Below what strife and endless toils they weave : Wanting brave Strength to strangle men to death , What Frauds they hide ! What Venom underneath ! And when some shorter course to Murder's shown , Cry , Oh that ( luscious ) Point ! they gain'd the Crown . Sons of the Pulpit the same measures keep , And of that same stumm'd Cup have drunk as deep . Agog for some odd transubstantiate thing , Chimera reign , and Metaphysic King , Sublim'd to School Divinity texreams , Their Brains would crow with Patriarchal Dreams . So high from solid honest wisdom blown , They'd have some Hippo-Centaur on the Throne . Not Law-ordain'd , but by some God appointed , Not Lay-elected , but be Priest-anointed . Away this Goblin Witchcraft , Priestcraft-Prince ; Give us a King , Divine , by Law and Sense . Now Bar and Pulpit to Dragoons a sport , Their Cause is carried to the last Resort . Princes in more compendious method teach , Force is their way ; let old Apostles preach . What's stablish'd Law , where standing Armies come ; Or who'll talk Gospel to a Kettle Drum ? When God would hear , where Giants did oppress , The several Nations had their Hercules . So were the Horns of grizzly violence broke , So People freed from triple Geryon's yoke . The various Snake in Lerna-Lough that bred , That loll'd and hiss'd to death , at every head , Nemaean Lion , Erymanthian Boar , In Bogs that wallow , and on Hills that roar : All by his Godlike Prowess done away , Their lawless rule , and that Gigantic sway . In vain while this high Virtue Nations sought , The Nassau-House were never yet without . Nor is confin'd to Provinces their care , Their generous labour neighbouring Kingdoms share . Here the foul Heard flee from his lifted hand , That long had made a Stable of the Land. The Monster of the Lough , new Lerna-Plague ( But scarce in head ) the Bog-begotten Teague , The ravenous kind , the Harpies sharp for prey , With Birds obscene , and uncouth to the day . No Den , no Ditch , no rousting for 'em more , Now , now is come our Hercules ashore . Vile Fraud dispell'd , and superstitious Mists : He from our Temple drives all knavish Priests . Then warmer Wallop , in due Scarlet shown , To Coffee-Dick bequeathes his rusty Gown . O Dryden , if this Hercules were thine , How wou'd his Club , and Atlas-shoulders shine : How wou'dst thou all our Maids of Honour fright , With naughty Tale , of Fifty in a night ? Howe'er , no more let Xavier mar thy Pen , No Miracle to Forty thousand Men . When Law , and bald Divinity begins , Why then , the marvel that a Poet sins ? FINIS . Exeter , Nov. 5. 1688. 