Two proper nue Balletes . E Hath my heart in hold So sure I can not start which causeth me to be bold With lovers for to take part . B . hath me bound so sure Thorough Venus ordinance That in pains I must endure There for to take my chance . The pains they be so strong And painful unto me That I think I have great wrong If on me she have no petie . Now petie I the crave Her mind for to remove That I may ones have Her favour whom I love . It is for no great substance Nor goods that I her desire But only for the governance And the honesty in her does apere . For if I might obtain To fallen unto my loote Then would I be most fain To knit and endless knot . And if I get no grace Of her whom I love best My heart is in a woeful case Never like for tolyue in rest . Therefore Venus I the require The gods of this art That soon thou wilt appear To strike her with thy dart . For to cause her have some rues And grant to me her love That means nothing but truth By God that is above . Thus E , and B. I bid farewell Desiring them not to be unkind For of letters all , both great and small They are depyst in mind . Heartily unto you I me recomende Desiring you not to be offended For if any thing be amiss That here in is Unto my power it shall be amended . My heart is yours Unto the death While in my body Remains the breath . FINIS . Two proper nue Balletes . E Hath my heart in hold So sure I can not start which causeth me to be bold With lovers for to take part . B . hath me bound so sure Thorough Venus ordinance That in pains I must endure There for to take my chance . The pains they be so strong And painful unto me That I think I have great wrong If on me she have no petie . Now petie I the crave Her mind for to remove That I may ones have Her favour whom I love . It is for no great substance Nor goods that I her desire But only for the governance And the honesty in her does apere . For if I might obtain To fallen unto my loote Then would I be most fain To knit and endless knot . And if I get no grace Of her whom I love best My heart is in a woeful case Never like for tolyue in rest . Therefore Venus I the require The gods of this art That soon thou wilt appear To strike her with thy dart . For to cause her have some rues And grant to me her love That means nothing but truth By God that is above . Thus E , and B. I bid farewell Desiring them not to be unkind For of letters all , both great and small They are depyst in mind . Heartily unto you I me recomende Desiring you not to be offended For if any thing be amiss That here in is Unto my power it shall be amended . My heart is yours Unto the death While in my body Remains the breath . FINIS . 