[ 1 ] THE PROLOGUE AT THE Opening of the Theatre-Royal , the Day after His MAJESTY's Public Entry . Spoken by Mr. WILKS . AT length , Britannia , rescu'd from thy Fears , Renew thy Joys : Thy promis'd KING appears . How did thy Sons , each Hour , with anxious Mind , Consult the Skies , and importune the Wind ! How did they count each Wave , that caus'd his Stay , Still rolling backward o'er the watery Way ! How did his Entry every Soul employ ! How strong the Transport ! and how loud the Joy ! While You were zealous for your Soveraign's Right , For Him We made our Greeks and Romans fight . Oft as the Muse some Godlike Hero drew , Or set a virtuous Patriot to your View ; So [ 2 ] So oft we warm'd you in the BRUNSWICK Cause , And fix'd a generous People to their Laws . Though great the Dearth of Comic Fools will be , And a thin Crop of Coxcombs we foresee ; Though Sense is like to thrive throughout the Land , And all French Fopperies will be Contraband : We not despair . Some Ridicule may rise , Some modish Oddness , some bizarre Disguise : So oft does Rapture sober Sense destroy ; For Folly ever was the Child of Joy . At least , for dear Variety , you'll choose Sometime to listen to the Tragic Muse : Here shall you fit , and solemn Silence keep , lest you grow Wanton , and forget to Weep . When such a Monarch comes to bless the Age , No Sorrows shall be felt , but from the Stage . FINIS . Printed for J. Tonson in the Strand . 1714. ( Price Two Pence . ) [ 1 ] THE PROLOGUE AT THE Opening of the Theatre-Royal , the Day after His MAJESTY's Public Entry . Spoken by Mr. WILKS . AT length , Britannia , rescu'd from thy Fears , Renew thy Joys : Thy promis'd KING appears . How did thy Sons , each Hour , with anxious Mind , Consult the Skies , and importune the Wind ! How did they count each Wave , that caus'd his Stay , Still rolling backward o'er the watery Way ! How did his Entry every Soul employ ! How strong the Transport ! and how loud the Joy ! While You were zealous for your Soveraign's Right , For Him We made our Greeks and Romans fight . Oft as the Muse some Godlike Hero drew , Or set a virtuous Patriot to your View ; So [ 2 ] So oft we warm'd you in the BRUNSWICK Cause , And fix'd a generous People to their Laws . Though great the Dearth of Comic Fools will be , And a thin Crop of Coxcombs we foresee ; Though Sense is like to thrive throughout the Land , And all French Fopperies will be Contraband : We not despair . Some Ridicule may rise , Some modish Oddness , some bizarre Disguise : So oft does Rapture sober Sense destroy ; For Folly ever was the Child of Joy . At least , for dear Variety , you'll choose Sometime to listen to the Tragic Muse : Here shall you fit , and solemn Silence keep , lest you grow Wanton , and forget to Weep . When such a Monarch comes to bless the Age , No Sorrows shall be felt , but from the Stage . FINIS . Printed for J. Tonson in the Strand . 1714. ( Price Two Pence . ) [ 1 ] THE PROLOGUE AT THE Opening of the Theatre-Royal , the Day after His MAJESTY's Public Entry . Spoken by Mr. WILKS . AT length , Britannia , rescu'd from thy Fears , Renew thy Joys : Thy promis'd KING appears . How did thy Sons , each Hour , with anxious Mind , Consult the Skies , and importune the Wind ! How did they count each Wave , that caus'd his Stay , Still rolling backward o'er the watery Way ! How did his Entry every Soul employ ! How strong the Transport ! and how loud the Joy ! While You were zealous for your Soveraign's Right , For Him We made our Greeks and Romans fight . Oft as the Muse some Godlike Hero drew , Or set a virtuous Patriot to your View ; So [ 2 ] So oft we warm'd you in the BRUNSWICK Cause , And fix'd a generous People to their Laws . Though great the Dearth of Comic Fools will be , And a thin Crop of Coxcombs we foresee ; Though Sense is like to thrive throughout the Land , And all French Fopperies will be Contraband : We not despair . Some Ridicule may rise , Some modish Oddness , some bizarre Disguise : So oft does Rapture sober Sense destroy ; For Folly ever was the Child of Joy . At least , for dear Variety , you'll choose Sometime to listen to the Tragic Muse : Here shall you fit , and solemn Silence keep , lest you grow Wanton , and forget to Weep . When such a Monarch comes to bless the Age , No Sorrows shall be felt , but from the Stage . FINIS . Printed for J. Tonson in the Strand . 1714. ( Price Two Pence . ) [ 1 ] THE PROLOGUE AT THE Opening of the Theatre-Royal , the Day after His MAJESTY's Public Entry . Spoken by Mr. WILKS . AT length , Britannia , rescu'd from thy Fears , Renew thy Joys : Thy promis'd KING appears . How did thy Sons , each Hour , with anxious Mind , Consult the Skies , and importune the Wind ! How did they count each Wave , that caus'd his Stay , Still rolling backward o'er the watery Way ! How did his Entry every Soul employ ! How strong the Transport ! and how loud the Joy ! While You were zealous for your Soveraign's Right , For Him We made our Greeks and Romans fight . Oft as the Muse some Godlike Hero drew , Or set a virtuous Patriot to your View ; So [ 2 ] So oft we warm'd you in the BRUNSWICK Cause , And fix'd a generous People to their Laws . Though great the Dearth of Comic Fools will be , And a thin Crop of Coxcombs we foresee ; Though Sense is like to thrive throughout the Land , And all French Fopperies will be Contraband : We not despair . Some Ridicule may rise , Some modish Oddness , some bizarre Disguise : So oft does Rapture sober Sense destroy ; For Folly ever was the Child of Joy . At least , for dear Variety , you'll choose Sometime to listen to the Tragic Muse : Here shall you fit , and solemn Silence keep , lest you grow Wanton , and forget to Weep . When such a Monarch comes to bless the Age , No Sorrows shall be felt , but from the Stage . FINIS . Printed for J. Tonson in the Strand . 1714. ( Price Two Pence . ) 