TO The Right Honourable Mr. HARLEY , ON His first Appearing in Public , after the Wound given Him by Guiscard . AT last dispelling His lov'd Country's Fears , Again Great HARLEY at the Helm appears : Gives Life to Europe's Cause , supports His QUEEN , And adds new Motion to the State-Machine . Abroad the haughty Gallic Tyrant grieves , And Faction die at Home , while HARLEY lives . Dire Guiscard , with Infernal Rage possess'd , Destin'd his Steel to ANNA's sacred Breast . Baffled in That , he acts his Second Part ; And strives to Stab Her in Her HARLEY'S Heart . Tho' nearer to Success , he misses still ; Ev'n There he only Stabs , but cannot Kill . Yet on th' extremest Brink of Fate We stood : The just not mortal Wound ! --- The flowing Blood ! --- Amaz'd We saw the Wretch advance so far , And with One Stroke almost conclude the War. To To Thee , Great Man , the Muse her faint Essays Thus makes ; unknowing how her Strains to raise , How to Congratulate , or how to Praise . Fain with th' admiring World she would rejoice , And add her Triumphs to the Public Voice . Caesar , amid His Pomp and purple Pride , Stab'd in the Senate , by the Senate dy'd . Greater Thy Glory ! With one Common Breath The Senate welcomes Thee escap'd from Death . Tho' not His Fallen , Thou shar'st His better Fate , Like Him administering th' Affairs of State ; Like Him Immortal , like Him Wise and Great . Thy Foes by this Attempt advance Thee higher , And ev'n their Treasons with Thy Worth conspire . By this Attempt they eterniz'd Thy Name , Design'd Thy Death , and gave Thee Deathless Fame . So when on Romulus bold Traitors ran , Furious t' Assassinate th' Immortal Man ; Jove snatch'd Him from their Rage : With wondering Eyes They saw the living Hero mount the Skies , Born to the Realms above thro' Paths untrod ; And where They meant a Murder , made a God . LONDON : Printed for John Morphew , near Stationers-Hall , 1711. Price One Penny TO The Right Honourable Mr. HARLEY , ON His first Appearing in Public , after the Wound given Him by Guiscard . AT last dispelling His lov'd Country's Fears , Again Great HARLEY at the Helm appears : Gives Life to Europe's Cause , supports His QUEEN , And adds new Motion to the State-Machine . Abroad the haughty Gallic Tyrant grieves , And Faction die at Home , while HARLEY lives . Dire Guiscard , with Infernal Rage possess'd , Destin'd his Steel to ANNA's sacred Breast . Baffled in That , he acts his Second Part ; And strives to Stab Her in Her HARLEY'S Heart . Tho' nearer to Success , he misses still ; Ev'n There he only Stabs , but cannot Kill . Yet on th' extremest Brink of Fate We stood : The just not mortal Wound ! --- The flowing Blood ! --- Amaz'd We saw the Wretch advance so far , And with One Stroke almost conclude the War. To To Thee , Great Man , the Muse her faint Essays Thus makes ; unknowing how her Strains to raise , How to Congratulate , or how to Praise . Fain with th' admiring World she would rejoice , And add her Triumphs to the Public Voice . Caesar , amid His Pomp and purple Pride , Stab'd in the Senate , by the Senate dy'd . Greater Thy Glory ! With one Common Breath The Senate welcomes Thee escap'd from Death . Tho' not His Fallen , Thou shar'st His better Fate , Like Him administering th' Affairs of State ; Like Him Immortal , like Him Wise and Great . Thy Foes by this Attempt advance Thee higher , And ev'n their Treasons with Thy Worth conspire . By this Attempt they eterniz'd Thy Name , Design'd Thy Death , and gave Thee Deathless Fame . So when on Romulus bold Traitors ran , Furious t' Assassinate th' Immortal Man ; Jove snatch'd Him from their Rage : With wondering Eyes They saw the living Hero mount the Skies , Born to the Realms above thro' Paths untrod ; And where They meant a Murder , made a God . LONDON : Printed for John Morphew , near Stationers-Hall , 1711. Price One Penny TO The Right Honourable Mr. HARLEY , ON His first Appearing in Public , after the Wound given Him by Guiscard . AT last dispelling His lov'd Country's Fears , Again Great HARLEY at the Helm appears : Gives Life to Europe's Cause , supports His QUEEN , And adds new Motion to the State-Machine . Abroad the haughty Gallic Tyrant grieves , And Faction die at Home , while HARLEY lives . Dire Guiscard , with Infernal Rage possess'd , Destin'd his Steel to ANNA's sacred Breast . Baffled in That , he acts his Second Part ; And strives to Stab Her in Her HARLEY'S Heart . Tho' nearer to Success , he misses still ; Ev'n There he only Stabs , but cannot Kill . Yet on th' extremest Brink of Fate We stood : The just not mortal Wound ! --- The flowing Blood ! --- Amaz'd We saw the Wretch advance so far , And with One Stroke almost conclude the War. To To Thee , Great Man , the Muse her faint Essays Thus makes ; unknowing how her Strains to raise , How to Congratulate , or how to Praise . Fain with th' admiring World she would rejoice , And add her Triumphs to the Public Voice . Caesar , amid His Pomp and purple Pride , Stab'd in the Senate , by the Senate dy'd . Greater Thy Glory ! With one Common Breath The Senate welcomes Thee escap'd from Death . Tho' not His Fallen , Thou shar'st His better Fate , Like Him administering th' Affairs of State ; Like Him Immortal , like Him Wise and Great . Thy Foes by this Attempt advance Thee higher , And ev'n their Treasons with Thy Worth conspire . By this Attempt they eterniz'd Thy Name , Design'd Thy Death , and gave Thee Deathless Fame . So when on Romulus bold Traitors ran , Furious t' Assassinate th' Immortal Man ; Jove snatch'd Him from their Rage : With wondering Eyes They saw the living Hero mount the Skies , Born to the Realms above thro' Paths untrod ; And where They meant a Murder , made a God . LONDON : Printed for John Morphew , near Stationers-Hall , 1711. Price One Penny TO The Right Honourable Mr. HARLEY , ON His first Appearing in Public , after the Wound given Him by Guiscard . AT last dispelling His lov'd Country's Fears , Again Great HARLEY at the Helm appears : Gives Life to Europe's Cause , supports His QUEEN , And adds new Motion to the State-Machine . Abroad the haughty Gallic Tyrant grieves , And Faction die at Home , while HARLEY lives . Dire Guiscard , with Infernal Rage possess'd , Destin'd his Steel to ANNA's sacred Breast . Baffled in That , he acts his Second Part ; And strives to Stab Her in Her HARLEY'S Heart . Tho' nearer to Success , he misses still ; Ev'n There he only Stabs , but cannot Kill . Yet on th' extremest Brink of Fate We stood : The just not mortal Wound ! --- The flowing Blood ! --- Amaz'd We saw the Wretch advance so far , And with One Stroke almost conclude the War. To To Thee , Great Man , the Muse her faint Essays Thus makes ; unknowing how her Strains to raise , How to Congratulate , or how to Praise . Fain with th' admiring World she would rejoice , And add her Triumphs to the Public Voice . Caesar , amid His Pomp and purple Pride , Stab'd in the Senate , by the Senate dy'd . Greater Thy Glory ! With one Common Breath The Senate welcomes Thee escap'd from Death . Tho' not His Fallen , Thou shar'st His better Fate , Like Him administering th' Affairs of State ; Like Him Immortal , like Him Wise and Great . Thy Foes by this Attempt advance Thee higher , And ev'n their Treasons with Thy Worth conspire . By this Attempt they eterniz'd Thy Name , Design'd Thy Death , and gave Thee Deathless Fame . So when on Romulus bold Traitors ran , Furious t' Assassinate th' Immortal Man ; Jove snatch'd Him from their Rage : With wondering Eyes They saw the living Hero mount the Skies , Born to the Realms above thro' Paths untrod ; And where They meant a Murder , made a God . LONDON : Printed for John Morphew , near Stationers-Hall , 1711. Price One Penny 