THE JUNTO . AT Dead of Night when peaceful Spirits Sleep And undisturb'd , a peaceful Sabath keep , When only Fiends their baleful looks display , Impatient of Discoveries from the Day , The JUNTO sat , in the N ------ th ------ rian Dome , Studious of Mischiefs , and of Ills to come . The President as usual , fill'd the Chair , With serious Aspect , and Malignant Air , Diseas'd in Body , and disturb'd in Soul , The one as much unclean as t'other foul . On his Right Hand was Old Volpone plac'd , With Wealth , and everything but Merit grac'd ; A Man whose Arts and undiscover'd Wiles Had vested him with wrong'd Britannia's Spoils , And whose all Powerful and Commanding WAND , Like Aaron's , had distress'd and vex'd the Land. The Mansion's stuttering Lord and Master next Was on the Left on his Posteriors fixed , And with a grinning Countenance survey'd What Schemes were drawn up , and what Plans were laid ; As he made Signs and Tokens all was safe , By his extempore Smiles , and thoughtless Laugh . Near him the Bully Vice-Roy cock'd his Hat , And prattled like a Mountebank of State , Of Feats he o're the Herring-Pond had done , And Proselytes to Mother Faction wone . Of breaking thro' a solemn Stipulation , And forcing Consciences , by way of Toleration . Nor was there See --------- ry from his Post , Without his intermeddling all'd be lost ; A Peer to be deduc'd to future Ages , For buying Books , and reading Title-Pages ; For Elzevirs and Aldus's entire , And being full as honest as his Sire . The sixth and last was a presumptuous Lord , More fit for College Crusts than Council-Board , A Pirate of a Peer , whose borrow'd Praise Proceeds from others Schemes , and others Lays ; Since he now sits in Senate's Upper House By Murray's Projects , and by Prior's Mouse . THE JUNTO . AT Dead of Night when peaceful Spirits Sleep And undisturb'd , a peaceful Sabath keep , When only Fiends their baleful looks display , Impatient of Discoveries from the Day , The JUNTO sat , in the N ------ th ------ rian Dome , Studious of Mischiefs , and of Ills to come . The President as usual , fill'd the Chair , With serious Aspect , and Malignant Air , Diseas'd in Body , and disturb'd in Soul , The one as much unclean as t'other foul . On his Right Hand was Old Volpone plac'd , With Wealth , and everything but Merit grac'd ; A Man whose Arts and undiscover'd Wiles Had vested him with wrong'd Britannia's Spoils , And whose all Powerful and Commanding WAND , Like Aaron's , had distress'd and vex'd the Land. The Mansion's stuttering Lord and Master next Was on the Left on his Posteriors fixed , And with a grinning Countenance survey'd What Schemes were drawn up , and what Plans were laid ; As he made Signs and Tokens all was safe , By his extempore Smiles , and thoughtless Laugh . Near him the Bully Vice-Roy cock'd his Hat , And prattled like a Mountebank of State , Of Feats he o're the Herring-Pond had done , And Proselytes to Mother Faction wone . Of breaking thro' a solemn Stipulation , And forcing Consciences , by way of Toleration . Nor was there See --------- ry from his Post , Without his intermeddling all'd be lost ; A Peer to be deduc'd to future Ages , For buying Books , and reading Title-Pages ; For Elzevirs and Aldus's entire , And being full as honest as his Sire . The sixth and last was a presumptuous Lord , More fit for College Crusts than Council-Board , A Pirate of a Peer , whose borrow'd Praise Proceeds from others Schemes , and others Lays ; Since he now sits in Senate's Upper House By Murray's Projects , and by Prior's Mouse . THE JUNTO . AT Dead of Night when peaceful Spirits Sleep And undisturb'd , a peaceful Sabath keep , When only Fiends their baleful looks display , Impatient of Discoveries from the Day , The JUNTO sat , in the N ------ th ------ rian Dome , Studious of Mischiefs , and of Ills to come . The President as usual , fill'd the Chair , With serious Aspect , and Malignant Air , Diseas'd in Body , and disturb'd in Soul , The one as much unclean as t'other foul . On his Right Hand was Old Volpone plac'd , With Wealth , and everything but Merit grac'd ; A Man whose Arts and undiscover'd Wiles Had vested him with wrong'd Britannia's Spoils , And whose all Powerful and Commanding WAND , Like Aaron's , had distress'd and vex'd the Land. The Mansion's stuttering Lord and Master next Was on the Left on his Posteriors fixed , And with a grinning Countenance survey'd What Schemes were drawn up , and what Plans were laid ; As he made Signs and Tokens all was safe , By his extempore Smiles , and thoughtless Laugh . Near him the Bully Vice-Roy cock'd his Hat , And prattled like a Mountebank of State , Of Feats he o're the Herring-Pond had done , And Proselytes to Mother Faction wone . Of breaking thro' a solemn Stipulation , And forcing Consciences , by way of Toleration . Nor was there See --------- ry from his Post , Without his intermeddling all'd be lost ; A Peer to be deduc'd to future Ages , For buying Books , and reading Title-Pages ; For Elzevirs and Aldus's entire , And being full as honest as his Sire . The sixth and last was a presumptuous Lord , More fit for College Crusts than Council-Board , A Pirate of a Peer , whose borrow'd Praise Proceeds from others Schemes , and others Lays ; Since he now sits in Senate's Upper House By Murray's Projects , and by Prior's Mouse . THE JUNTO . AT Dead of Night when peaceful Spirits Sleep And undisturb'd , a peaceful Sabath keep , When only Fiends their baleful looks display , Impatient of Discoveries from the Day , The JUNTO sat , in the N ------ th ------ rian Dome , Studious of Mischiefs , and of Ills to come . The President as usual , fill'd the Chair , With serious Aspect , and Malignant Air , Diseas'd in Body , and disturb'd in Soul , The one as much unclean as t'other foul . On his Right Hand was Old Volpone plac'd , With Wealth , and everything but Merit grac'd ; A Man whose Arts and undiscover'd Wiles Had vested him with wrong'd Britannia's Spoils , And whose all Powerful and Commanding WAND , Like Aaron's , had distress'd and vex'd the Land. The Mansion's stuttering Lord and Master next Was on the Left on his Posteriors fixed , And with a grinning Countenance survey'd What Schemes were drawn up , and what Plans were laid ; As he made Signs and Tokens all was safe , By his extempore Smiles , and thoughtless Laugh . Near him the Bully Vice-Roy cock'd his Hat , And prattled like a Mountebank of State , Of Feats he o're the Herring-Pond had done , And Proselytes to Mother Faction wone . Of breaking thro' a solemn Stipulation , And forcing Consciences , by way of Toleration . Nor was there See --------- ry from his Post , Without his intermeddling all'd be lost ; A Peer to be deduc'd to future Ages , For buying Books , and reading Title-Pages ; For Elzevirs and Aldus's entire , And being full as honest as his Sire . The sixth and last was a presumptuous Lord , More fit for College Crusts than Council-Board , A Pirate of a Peer , whose borrow'd Praise Proceeds from others Schemes , and others Lays ; Since he now sits in Senate's Upper House By Murray's Projects , and by Prior's Mouse . 