The Lamentation of Seven Journey men Tailors , Being sent up in a letter from York-Shire , and written in verse by a wit . Giving a true Account of a Wench , who being with Child , laid it to seven Journeymen Tailors , who at length was forc'd to contribute each Man his Penny a day to defray the extraordinary Charge ; with other circumstances which this had like to have incurred upon the seven distressed Journey-men-Taylors : This being published for the good of all Journey-men Tailors , lest they unhappily do fallen in the like distress . To the tune of , I am the Duke of Norfolk . Entered according to Order . ATtend and you shall hear , New News from Yorkshire , Of a Letter that was sent up in Rhime , Wherein they plainly show , Seven Tailors Overthrow , And this was in Cowcumber time . These Tailors they agreed , And a Wench it seems they fee'd , That they might have a finger in the Pie , Their Wits they were so wild , They god a Wench with Child , And believe me it is no Lie . Then the Tailors and their Miss , Went before the Justice , And all along the Streets as they went , Then the People they did jeer , And the Tailors stunk for fear , Oh there was a most horrid Scent . O but when they did come near , Before the Justice to appear , Their hearts they began for to fail , With many cruel fears , Hanging down their Ears , Like a Dog that had burned his tail . The Wench she made it out , That each Taylor had a bout , But yet could not certainly say , Whither William , Tom , or Dick , Or who might do the trick , So the Child to them all she did lay . The Justice to them said , You have wronged this poor Maid , Therefore then without any fail , You must bring to me , Some good Security , Or else you must all to a Jale . The Tailors answer To the JUSTICE . Goid Sir hear us what we say We work for a Groat a day , And like your Worship we can earn no more , Though we have done amiss , I pray excuse us this , For we never did the like before . That's neither here nor there , For the Child you shall take care , And also the woman too indeed , They sent and god a friend , And soon did make and end , The Tailors with the Wench they agree'd . As we do understand , Each Taylor set his hand , To give each man his penny a day , And thus among them all , Their Charges was but small , They went most contentedly away . But when they did come home , Their Wives did fret and foam , For it seems they had herd of the thing ; Their tongues they did not spare But like thunder in the air , They did make the whole town for to ring . Their Wives did puff and snuff , They did both kick and cuff , That the Tailors was almost undone , Then all about the town , They did kick them up and down , The poor Tailors knew not where to run . Then to their Wives they bow'd , And Solemnly they vow'd , If they would their Fury refrain , then they would spend their lives , In pleasing of their Wives , And would never do the like again . Thus by this sad Disaster , Their Wives became their Master's , Which makes the poor Tailors now to mourn For as we understand , Their Wives they bear command , Now they dare not say their foul's their owe [ n ] . This Letter it was sent , With and honest good intent , To all the poor Tailors far and near , That they might mend their Lives , And prove honest to their Wives , lest the like of this fallen to their share . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The Lamentation of Seven Journey men Tailors , Being sent up in a letter from York-Shire , and written in verse by a wit . Giving a true Account of a Wench , who being with Child , laid it to seven Journeymen Tailors , who at length was forc'd to contribute each Man his Penny a day to defray the extraordinary Charge ; with other circumstances which this had like to have incurred upon the seven distressed Journey-men-Taylors : This being published for the good of all Journey-men Tailors , lest they unhappily do fallen in the like distress . To the tune of , I am the Duke of Norfolk . Entered according to Order . ATtend and you shall hear , New News from Yorkshire , Of a Letter that was sent up in Rhime , Wherein they plainly show , Seven Tailors Overthrow , And this was in Cowcumber time . These Tailors they agreed , And a Wench it seems they fee'd , That they might have a finger in the Pie , Their Wits they were so wild , They god a Wench with Child , And believe me it is no Lie . Then the Tailors and their Miss , Went before the Justice , And all along the Streets as they went , Then the People they did jeer , And the Tailors stunk for fear , Oh there was a most horrid Scent . O but when they did come near , Before the Justice to appear , Their hearts they began for to fail , With many cruel fears , Hanging down their Ears , Like a Dog that had burned his tail . The Wench she made it out , That each Taylor had a bout , But yet could not certainly say , Whither William , Tom , or Dick , Or who might do the trick , So the Child to them all she did lay . The Justice to them said , You have wronged this poor Maid , Therefore then without any fail , You must bring to me , Some good Security , Or else you must all to a Jale . The Tailors answer To the JUSTICE . Goid Sir hear us what we say We work for a Groat a day , And like your Worship we can earn no more , Though we have done amiss , I pray excuse us this , For we never did the like before . That's neither here nor there , For the Child you shall take care , And also the woman too indeed , They sent and god a friend , And soon did make and end , The Tailors with the Wench they agree'd . As we do understand , Each Taylor set his hand , To give each man his penny a day , And thus among them all , Their Charges was but small , They went most contentedly away . But when they did come home , Their Wives did fret and foam , For it seems they had herd of the thing ; Their tongues they did not spare But like thunder in the air , They did make the whole town for to ring . Their Wives did puff and snuff , They did both kick and cuff , That the Tailors was almost undone , Then all about the town , They did kick them up and down , The poor Tailors knew not where to run . Then to their Wives they bow'd , And Solemnly they vow'd , If they would their Fury refrain , then they would spend their lives , In pleasing of their Wives , And would never do the like again . Thus by this sad Disaster , Their Wives became their Master's , Which makes the poor Tailors now to mourn For as we understand , Their Wives they bear command , Now they dare not say their foul's their owe [ n ] . This Letter it was sent , With and honest good intent , To all the poor Tailors far and near , That they might mend their Lives , And prove honest to their Wives , lest the like of this fallen to their share . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 