AND ELEGIE Sacred to the Memory of Sir Edmundbury Godfrey Knight ; Whose body was lately found Barbarously Murdered , and since Honourably Interr'd , the 31th of October , 1678. AND ELEGIE ! forbear : who ere profanes This lasting Name with cheap unhallowed strains , Commits a Murder second to their Gilded , By whose infernal Hands his Blood was spilled . So vast a Merit , and so strange a Fate , Must not be Blazon'd at the common Rate ; With mercenary Rhyme , Set-forms of Praise , Or stale Applauses which bold Flatterers raise To pin upon some Hearse , whose waiting throng Mourn only 'cause the party liv'd so long . Those customary Sighs have here no part ; We Weep in earnest , and untaught by Art. Slight Griefs may speak aloud ; but those that come From deep Resentments of our Loss , are dumb . As when fierce Thunder the World's Poles does shake , Or Winds break Jail , and make the Earth to quake . Mortals amaz'd , can scarce express their Fears ; But only court Heav'ns aid with silent Prayers : So this dire Fact ( which equal Terror brought ) Stifles our Reason , and Benumbs our Thought . A Chilling Horror thrils through every Vein ; Each honest man by Sympathy is slave , Or feels with Him , though not the Death , the pain . 'Tis dangerous to be Good : well may we praise Virtue or Innocence ; but who can raise A pow'r that shall secure them , or withstand Th' Assassinations of a bloody Hand ? He whose clear Life might and Example be Of upright Justice , generous Charity ; That public spirit that laid out his Store T'employ and cherish all industrious Poor ; And ne'r with any did a Feud profess , But busy Treason , and lewd Idleness : Whose Actions were not fram'd merely for sighed , Like artful Pieces plac'd in a fit light , That they may take at distance ; but appear Most fair when you observe them most , and near . This LOYAL PATRIOT , by untimely Fate , And basest cruelties of unjust Hate , Falls as a Victim for the Church and State . Could we have seen with what composed Eyes He entertain'd th'astonishing surprise ; How he with Christian grandeur did engage Their sharpest Malice , and their utmost Rage ; T' had fill'd our minds with thoughts enlarg'd and high , And taught unhappy Heroes how to die . Methinks t'observe how Virtue draws faint breath , Subject to Slanders , Plots , and Violent Death ; How many dangers on best actions wait , Right check'd by Wrong , and ill men fortunate : These mov'd Effects from and unmoved Cause , Might shake and easy Faith ; Heav'ns sacred Laws Might casual seem , and our irregular Sense Spurn at just Order , and blame Providence : Did we not know , there's and adored Will In all that haps to Men , or Good , or Ill , Suffer'd , or sent ; and what is Man to pry , Into th'Abyss of such a Mystery ? The Rising Sun to mortal sighed reveals This lower Globe ; but the bright Stars conceals . So may our Sense discover natural things ; But those Divine soar above Humane Wings . Then not the Fate , but Fates bad Instrument Let us accuse , in each sad accident . Good men must die : Rapes , Incest , MURTHERS come ; But Woe and Curses follow them by whom . God Authors all men's Actions , not their since ; For that proceeds from dev'lish Lust within . Nor let the barbarous Actors hug their Crime , Because they lurk concealed for a time : Heav'n sees , and will expose what they have done , No doubt , ere long , to Justice and the Sun. Meantime , loaded with Blood , Horror , and Fear , And that which crowns all Villainy , Despair ; May they possess their PURGATORY here , And as Cains since , so his Self-tortures bear . May they the wounding stripes of Conscience feel , That lashes Gilded with whips of flaming steel , So long , till they shall count Death's pains far less , And freely come the Murder to confess . But as when stinking Exhalations rise , And with black storms invade the purer skies ; They cann't put out the Sun , though hide his Rays , Which quickly he more gloriously displays : So these vile hands in their Revenge are poor ; In murdering Him , their Cause they murder more . Hells Agents do but hasten him Heav'ns way , And Pow'rs of darkness antedate his day . In vain , in vain , is all their cursed spigh He still survives in Fields of blissful light , And with a pitying smile from thence looks down , Ennobled with a Martyrs brighter Crown ; While at th'Interment of his slumbering Clay , A weeping Nation shall just Honours pay . FINIS . H.C. Licens'd , Octob. 30. 1678. LONDON : Printed for L. C. 1678. AND ELEGIE Sacred to the Memory of Sir Edmundbury Godfrey Knight ; Whose body was lately found Barbarously Murdered , and since Honourably Interr'd , the 31th of October , 1678. AND ELEGIE ! forbear : who ere profanes This lasting Name with cheap unhallowed strains , Commits a Murder second to their Gilded , By whose infernal Hands his Blood was spilled . So vast a Merit , and so strange a Fate , Must not be Blazon'd at the common Rate ; With mercenary Rhyme , Set-forms of Praise , Or stale Applauses which bold Flatterers raise To pin upon some Hearse , whose waiting throng Mourn only 'cause the party liv'd so long . Those customary Sighs have here no part ; We Weep in earnest , and untaught by Art. Slight Griefs may speak aloud ; but those that come From deep Resentments of our Loss , are dumb . As when fierce Thunder the World's Poles does shake , Or Winds break Jail , and make the Earth to quake . Mortals amaz'd , can scarce express their Fears ; But only court Heav'ns aid with silent Prayers : So this dire Fact ( which equal Terror brought ) Stifles our Reason , and Benumbs our Thought . A Chilling Horror thrils through every Vein ; Each honest man by Sympathy is slave , Or feels with Him , though not the Death , the pain . 'Tis dangerous to be Good : well may we praise Virtue or Innocence ; but who can raise A pow'r that shall secure them , or withstand Th' Assassinations of a bloody Hand ? He whose clear Life might and Example be Of upright Justice , generous Charity ; That public spirit that laid out his Store T'employ and cherish all industrious Poor ; And ne'r with any did a Feud profess , But busy Treason , and lewd Idleness : Whose Actions were not fram'd merely for sighed , Like artful Pieces plac'd in a fit light , That they may take at distance ; but appear Most fair when you observe them most , and near . This LOYAL PATRIOT , by untimely Fate , And basest cruelties of unjust Hate , Falls as a Victim for the Church and State . Could we have seen with what composed Eyes He entertain'd th'astonishing surprise ; How he with Christian grandeur did engage Their sharpest Malice , and their utmost Rage ; T' had fill'd our minds with thoughts enlarg'd and high , And taught unhappy Heroes how to die . Methinks t'observe how Virtue draws faint breath , Subject to Slanders , Plots , and Violent Death ; How many dangers on best actions wait , Right check'd by Wrong , and ill men fortunate : These mov'd Effects from and unmoved Cause , Might shake and easy Faith ; Heav'ns sacred Laws Might casual seem , and our irregular Sense Spurn at just Order , and blame Providence : Did we not know , there's and adored Will In all that haps to Men , or Good , or Ill , Suffer'd , or sent ; and what is Man to pry , Into th'Abyss of such a Mystery ? The Rising Sun to mortal sighed reveals This lower Globe ; but the bright Stars conceals . So may our Sense discover natural things ; But those Divine soar above Humane Wings . Then not the Fate , but Fates bad Instrument Let us accuse , in each sad accident . Good men must die : Rapes , Incest , MURTHERS come ; But Woe and Curses follow them by whom . God Authors all men's Actions , not their since ; For that proceeds from dev'lish Lust within . Nor let the barbarous Actors hug their Crime , Because they lurk concealed for a time : Heav'n sees , and will expose what they have done , No doubt , ere long , to Justice and the Sun. Meantime , loaded with Blood , Horror , and Fear , And that which crowns all Villainy , Despair ; May they possess their PURGATORY here , And as Cains since , so his Self-tortures bear . May they the wounding stripes of Conscience feel , That lashes Gilded with whips of flaming steel , So long , till they shall count Death's pains far less , And freely come the Murder to confess . But as when stinking Exhalations rise , And with black storms invade the purer skies ; They cann't put out the Sun , though hide his Rays , Which quickly he more gloriously displays : So these vile hands in their Revenge are poor ; In murdering Him , their Cause they murder more . Hells Agents do but hasten him Heav'ns way , And Pow'rs of darkness antedate his day . In vain , in vain , is all their cursed spigh He still survives in Fields of blissful light , And with a pitying smile from thence looks down , Ennobled with a Martyrs brighter Crown ; While at th'Interment of his slumbering Clay , A weeping Nation shall just Honours pay . FINIS . H.C. Licens'd , Octob. 30. 1678. LONDON : Printed for L. C. 1678. 