AND ELEGY On the Lamented Death of Poor Truth and Honesty ; Who Departed this Life , with the Renowned Paper call'd the London-Post , on Monday the 11th Day of June , 1705. ALL Humane Things are subject to decay , And when Fate Summons , Scribblers must obey ; This Authors find , who forward to Transgress , Disturb their Readers , and Disgrace the Press . among the Rest , none more Experience shows Of Sublunary Beings Mortal Woes Than Transitory Ben's obsequious Quill , Resistless of the Grand Destroyer's Will . Not but he try'd all Methods of Escape , Shifting , as others do , from Shape to Shape , In hope's , stern Death Ambiguous in the Chase Might seize some other Libel in his Place , And with a Nobler Victim Sat its Rage , Than with his Emptiness and Hungry Page , But Hope's are vain to Men by Fate persu'd , No Tricks can its unerring search Elude , It penetrates through every Thick Disguise And Fixes on the destin'd Sacrifice . Such H --------- s was , whom no Escape avails , Ev'n undisguis'd , behind his Beam and Scales , Death found him out , and follow'd him from thence Under another Title torturing Sense , Dragging th' Offender out to Execution With all his Mermydons of Resolutions , As it dismiss'd the Traitors to their Graves , And Truth and Honesty were Hang'd for Knaves . Yet shall not his Devoted Paper Die ; Without the Funeral Rites of Elegy , Living he made us Laugh , and Dead should make us Cry . O Ben. to thy Immortal Pains is due , We had not only News but Nonsense too , That Mails when wanting , daily were supply'd , With storm'd Entrenchments on thy Country's side , That Winds when Adverse brought us in Expresses , And we were made amends for Facts by Guesses , That Men were charg'd with FauIts they ne'er committed , And Ladies with base Characters Bewitted , For this must to thy Honour be recorded , Thou hast o'er both the Sexes strangely Lorded , Trampel'd on Virtue , wheresoe'er 'twas found , And Innocence left Bleeding on the Ground , As every Grace , and every Cupid griev'd , To see what Wounds the tender Sex receiv'd . Who now shall Lash the Priesthood with the Laymen ! Make Sport for Porters , and Discourse for Draymen ! Who shall , like Thee , his Empty scull be racking For Billinggate against the since of Tacking . Alas ! that Excellence with Thee's departed , For which the Rabble Rout is broken Hearted ! For which so many Cobblers left their Stalls , And Butchers hung their Patch-work on their Walls . Mourn Him you Coffee-Houses , Mourn Him Dead , And weep your Daybreak Custom from you fled , Since He's no more for whom they Early rose To make their Comments on , with untied Rose . But Grief prevails and gains upon my Spirits , Impatient to sustain such Wondrous Merits , The Loss of which breaks in upon my song , And stops the rising Accents of my Tongue . Not that this Loss is not to be retriev'd , Aeneas in his Son Ascanius liv'd , Whose Virtues in his Offspring's Offspring known , Settled his Empire and confirm'd his Throne . So may the canting Scribelers He has left behind , Of the same Stamp and Virulence of Mind , Go on with his most pestilent Designs , And six what's aim'd at in his Mortal Lines : While scandal though it does its Champion loose , Survives in Observators and Revieues . F1NIS . EP1TAPH . Under this Stone lies Honesty and Truth Who dy'd with a Known Falsehood in their Mouth , Mistake me not , I speak it to his shame , Who dar'd to give a Fiend and Angels name . From hence let Authors have a special care , They represent Transactions as they are , That subject's with their Titles do aggre , Not lash in Extravagange , as we . Else one that writes may find it to His cost , London's Gaztte may fallen like London's Post . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1705. AND ELEGY On the Lamented Death of Poor Truth and Honesty ; Who Departed this Life , with the Renowned Paper call'd the London-Post , on Monday the 11th Day of June , 1705. ALL Humane Things are subject to decay , And when Fate Summons , Scribblers must obey ; This Authors find , who forward to Transgress , Disturb their Readers , and Disgrace the Press . among the Rest , none more Experience shows Of Sublunary Beings Mortal Woes Than Transitory Ben's obsequious Quill , Resistless of the Grand Destroyer's Will . Not but he try'd all Methods of Escape , Shifting , as others do , from Shape to Shape , In hope's , stern Death Ambiguous in the Chase Might seize some other Libel in his Place , And with a Nobler Victim Sat its Rage , Than with his Emptiness and Hungry Page , But Hope's are vain to Men by Fate persu'd , No Tricks can its unerring search Elude , It penetrates through every Thick Disguise And Fixes on the destin'd Sacrifice . Such H --------- s was , whom no Escape avails , Ev'n undisguis'd , behind his Beam and Scales , Death found him out , and follow'd him from thence Under another Title torturing Sense , Dragging th' Offender out to Execution With all his Mermydons of Resolutions , As it dismiss'd the Traitors to their Graves , And Truth and Honesty were Hang'd for Knaves . Yet shall not his Devoted Paper Die ; Without the Funeral Rites of Elegy , Living he made us Laugh , and Dead should make us Cry . O Ben. to thy Immortal Pains is due , We had not only News but Nonsense too , That Mails when wanting , daily were supply'd , With storm'd Entrenchments on thy Country's side , That Winds when Adverse brought us in Expresses , And we were made amends for Facts by Guesses , That Men were charg'd with FauIts they ne'er committed , And Ladies with base Characters Bewitted , For this must to thy Honour be recorded , Thou hast o'er both the Sexes strangely Lorded , Trampel'd on Virtue , wheresoe'er 'twas found , And Innocence left Bleeding on the Ground , As every Grace , and every Cupid griev'd , To see what Wounds the tender Sex receiv'd . Who now shall Lash the Priesthood with the Laymen ! Make Sport for Porters , and Discourse for Draymen ! Who shall , like Thee , his Empty scull be racking For Billinggate against the since of Tacking . Alas ! that Excellence with Thee's departed , For which the Rabble Rout is broken Hearted ! For which so many Cobblers left their Stalls , And Butchers hung their Patch-work on their Walls . Mourn Him you Coffee-Houses , Mourn Him Dead , And weep your Daybreak Custom from you fled , Since He's no more for whom they Early rose To make their Comments on , with untied Rose . But Grief prevails and gains upon my Spirits , Impatient to sustain such Wondrous Merits , The Loss of which breaks in upon my song , And stops the rising Accents of my Tongue . Not that this Loss is not to be retriev'd , Aeneas in his Son Ascanius liv'd , Whose Virtues in his Offspring's Offspring known , Settled his Empire and confirm'd his Throne . So may the canting Scribelers He has left behind , Of the same Stamp and Virulence of Mind , Go on with his most pestilent Designs , And six what's aim'd at in his Mortal Lines : While scandal though it does its Champion loose , Survives in Observators and Revieues . F1NIS . EP1TAPH . Under this Stone lies Honesty and Truth Who dy'd with a Known Falsehood in their Mouth , Mistake me not , I speak it to his shame , Who dar'd to give a Fiend and Angels name . From hence let Authors have a special care , They represent Transactions as they are , That subject's with their Titles do aggre , Not lash in Extravagange , as we . Else one that writes may find it to His cost , London's Gaztte may fallen like London's Post . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1705. 