AND ELIGIE UPON THE Universally-lamented Death of the thrice Noble and Virtuous Prince , Henry Duke of Gloucester . ANd is his breath expir'd ? hath His Chaste Soul Shak'd off her clayie fetters ? Ah , condole , Mourn and lament your Fate Distressed Isles Of Britains growing Empire , hence all smiles Adieu . Up , said Melpomenie , Ah , rouse Thy thirsty soul , and in thy tears carouse Thy fill ; come , banquet on the Sable Verse , My Muse shall sacrifice unto His Hearse : Turn from all other Objects , for here's One Presents thee with and Inundation Of lasting Grief . But what's my private woe , When all the Nations Tears do overflow . Yet stay , forbear a while , let's not believe He thus could die , and yet the Heavens not grieve At th' world's Great Loss ! what ? do impetuous showers Of tears from th'Weeping Clouds ( preventing ours ) Distil ; Or does the Day's Bright Lamp straight burn Dull as a Torch to light us to His Urn ? Is the dismantled Skies Bright Azure-Back , Straight over-clad in Sad and Mournful Black ? No , see Olymphus face serene and clear , Free from the signal of one Crystal tear ; Phoebus in's wonted lustre shines , the Skies Are not adorned for His Obsequies ; Sure then He still survives , and his soft breath's , But whispering Mercy in the ears of Death : View but His cheeks , where though the Roses are Seeming t'retreat , the Lilies spring more fair Then ere they did : Though's eyes they do not keep Their Rays in ure , they are but clos'd in sleep : The former lustre of his Ruby Lips , ( Which now seem Snow ) feel but a short Eclipse : By want of Sanguine heat , life does impart , And send at present to His drooping heart His dormant pulses ( which erewhile expressed His health ) are laid but sweetly down to res Cease then to think Him Dead , wait but a while , And gently he'll awake , see , see Him smile . But ah , our expectations are deceiv'd , And those so sweet Idea's we conceiv'd Would turn to Substance , are but Shadows fled Away on Airy Wings , for lo He's DEAD : He's dead , and coffin'd up , fit to receive The cold embracing of His ROYAL GRAVE . False Fancy , why ha'st mocked us ? why betray'd Our lingering Hope's thus into Lies ? and stayed The current of our Tears so long ? Ah , why Would'st thou persuade us that He could not die , Unless the troubled Heavens had mourn'd and wept To see Him dead , whil'st thou feign'd He but slept ; When oft we see the best of Nature falls , Unmourned for by Supernaturals . He's gone : open wide the floodgates of your eyes , That streams may pass . When common beauty lies Interr'd in dust , when death hath cropped the Rose Of Youth scarce blown , what flinty hearts are those Vent not a tear ? But now that Death takes hence The Lovely'st of the Land , our YOUNGEST PRINCE , Shall we be parsimonious of our store ? No , we'll even weep , till we can shed no more . Now if I could , I'd mount the Radiant Seat Of Sacred Angels , humbly to entreat A Quill plucked from their Wings , and crave a Fount Of Highest Eloquence , and then recount The Grandeur of His VERTUES ; for below , No Pen , no Strains are found that can them show . To say He was a PRINCE of Noblest Blood , Great by His Birth , yet not so Great as Good : To say He was so Learn'd , ere's age could reach , A score of years , He could His Tutors teach : To say He was a PRINCE whose Life was spent In Grief and Cares , yet never disconten To say He was but Young when ravish'd hence , Yet Old in WISDOM and EXPERIENCE : To say ( what shall I say ? ) He was become , The PRINCELY DARLING of all Christendom , Were but ( by these unworthy lines ) to tell A Truth the World already knows so well . Go ask the Church of Rome , she ( sighing ) says , Ah , all my Batteries could not shake His Faith . Go ask the nimble French , what was His Wit , They'll quickly tell you they admired it . Go ask the serious Spaniard , they'll aver , He was a PRINCE did need no Counselor . Go ask the Germane Princes , ask the Dutch , The Nations round , they'll say they found as much : We only ( soon unhappy made ) alas , Have scarce experimented what He was . Now what is Man , Oh what's the Noblest Man ? The Slave of Death ( whose Life is but a Span , ) A weary Passenger , still on his way , Here much esteem'd , a Nothing in a day . What is this Life ? but even expected Death , A Stage of Mockeries , a little breath Reserved in a Bladder , pricked 'tis lost ; A doleful Warfare , and to all ( not most ) A Sea of Misery's , a Vial fill'd With blood , which being quickly broke , 'tis spill'd . How infinitely happy then is His Bright Soul , releas'd from such a Life as this : There blessed Spirit rest , rest in that Peace , And these Celestial Joys shall never cease : GLOUSTERS Great Name on Earth ne'r can b'involv'd In Laethes Streams , until the World's dissolv'd . London , Printed for Thomas Parkhurst , at the lower end of Cheapside . AND ELIGIE UPON THE Universally-lamented Death of the thrice Noble and Virtuous Prince , Henry Duke of Gloucester . ANd is his breath expir'd ? hath His Chaste Soul Shak'd off her clayie fetters ? Ah , condole , Mourn and lament your Fate Distressed Isles Of Britains growing Empire , hence all smiles Adieu . Up , said Melpomenie , Ah , rouse Thy thirsty soul , and in thy tears carouse Thy fill ; come , banquet on the Sable Verse , My Muse shall sacrifice unto His Hearse : Turn from all other Objects , for here's One Presents thee with and Inundation Of lasting Grief . But what's my private woe , When all the Nations Tears do overflow . Yet stay , forbear a while , let's not believe He thus could die , and yet the Heavens not grieve At th' world's Great Loss ! what ? do impetuous showers Of tears from th'Weeping Clouds ( preventing ours ) Distil ; Or does the Day's Bright Lamp straight burn Dull as a Torch to light us to His Urn ? Is the dismantled Skies Bright Azure-Back , Straight over-clad in Sad and Mournful Black ? No , see Olymphus face serene and clear , Free from the signal of one Crystal tear ; Phoebus in's wonted lustre shines , the Skies Are not adorned for His Obsequies ; Sure then He still survives , and his soft breath's , But whispering Mercy in the ears of Death : View but His cheeks , where though the Roses are Seeming t'retreat , the Lilies spring more fair Then ere they did : Though's eyes they do not keep Their Rays in ure , they are but clos'd in sleep : The former lustre of his Ruby Lips , ( Which now seem Snow ) feel but a short Eclipse : By want of Sanguine heat , life does impart , And send at present to His drooping heart His dormant pulses ( which erewhile expressed His health ) are laid but sweetly down to res Cease then to think Him Dead , wait but a while , And gently he'll awake , see , see Him smile . But ah , our expectations are deceiv'd , And those so sweet Idea's we conceiv'd Would turn to Substance , are but Shadows fled Away on Airy Wings , for lo He's DEAD : He's dead , and coffin'd up , fit to receive The cold embracing of His ROYAL GRAVE . False Fancy , why ha'st mocked us ? why betray'd Our lingering Hope's thus into Lies ? and stayed The current of our Tears so long ? Ah , why Would'st thou persuade us that He could not die , Unless the troubled Heavens had mourn'd and wept To see Him dead , whil'st thou feign'd He but slept ; When oft we see the best of Nature falls , Unmourned for by Supernaturals . He's gone : open wide the floodgates of your eyes , That streams may pass . When common beauty lies Interr'd in dust , when death hath cropped the Rose Of Youth scarce blown , what flinty hearts are those Vent not a tear ? But now that Death takes hence The Lovely'st of the Land , our YOUNGEST PRINCE , Shall we be parsimonious of our store ? No , we'll even weep , till we can shed no more . Now if I could , I'd mount the Radiant Seat Of Sacred Angels , humbly to entreat A Quill plucked from their Wings , and crave a Fount Of Highest Eloquence , and then recount The Grandeur of His VERTUES ; for below , No Pen , no Strains are found that can them show . To say He was a PRINCE of Noblest Blood , Great by His Birth , yet not so Great as Good : To say He was so Learn'd , ere's age could reach , A score of years , He could His Tutors teach : To say He was a PRINCE whose Life was spent In Grief and Cares , yet never disconten To say He was but Young when ravish'd hence , Yet Old in WISDOM and EXPERIENCE : To say ( what shall I say ? ) He was become , The PRINCELY DARLING of all Christendom , Were but ( by these unworthy lines ) to tell A Truth the World already knows so well . Go ask the Church of Rome , she ( sighing ) says , Ah , all my Batteries could not shake His Faith . Go ask the nimble French , what was His Wit , They'll quickly tell you they admired it . Go ask the serious Spaniard , they'll aver , He was a PRINCE did need no Counselor . Go ask the Germane Princes , ask the Dutch , The Nations round , they'll say they found as much : We only ( soon unhappy made ) alas , Have scarce experimented what He was . Now what is Man , Oh what's the Noblest Man ? The Slave of Death ( whose Life is but a Span , ) A weary Passenger , still on his way , Here much esteem'd , a Nothing in a day . What is this Life ? but even expected Death , A Stage of Mockeries , a little breath Reserved in a Bladder , pricked 'tis lost ; A doleful Warfare , and to all ( not most ) A Sea of Misery's , a Vial fill'd With blood , which being quickly broke , 'tis spill'd . How infinitely happy then is His Bright Soul , releas'd from such a Life as this : There blessed Spirit rest , rest in that Peace , And these Celestial Joys shall never cease : GLOUSTERS Great Name on Earth ne'r can b'involv'd In Laethes Streams , until the World's dissolv'd . London , Printed for Thomas Parkhurst , at the lower end of Cheapside . 