AND ELEGIE Upon the Truly Worthy , and ever-to-be-remembred Loyal Gentleman , Captain WILL . BEDLOW , ENGLAD's Deliverer , and the Scourge of ROME : Who Departed this Life on the 22 of this instant August ; to the great Grief of all True Protestants . With and ACCOUNT of his PIOUS END . ALas ! what sullen Fate has hence convey'd That Soul once Heaven-Inspir'd , whose Wisdom stay'd The baleful Mischiefs of Blood thirsty Room , Baffl'd the Tyrannies , revers'd that Doom Which over us like a black Tempest spread , Just ready for to break on Albions head , And from her Womb ten thousand Murders shed ? Brave BEDLOW , he , who for his Country bold , Disdain'd the Traitor's Bribes , and spurn'd at Gold . His Soul , more Noble still , was bent on good ; Nor could he see Three Kingdoms set in Blood , But restless till he from far distance came , The horrid deeds of darkness to proclaim , Night-brooded secrets , first contriv'd in Hell , By which the Sacrifice of Britain fell , Renowned GODFREY , whose fresh bleeding Wounds The loud Alarm to the Nations sounds . For while to stifle Treasons thus they try'd , They lost their Aims , and Blood for vengeance cry'd From this low Earth , and reach'd the lofty Sky , Where his bless'd Soul wav'd in Eternity ; Then was the far renowned Captain sent , No doubt by him who rules Omnipotent , Who soon expell'd the gloomy shades wherein The horrid Crime so late had acted been ; Unmask'd the blood-bedabl'd Traitors all , While some they fled , the rest did justly fallen , Opening wider yet the fatal PLOT , Which then by thousands was almost forgotten . New Villainies by him were brought to light , In such dire shapes as might the world affright ; Such as the cruel Scythians blush to own ; Dire Treason , fit for Scarlet-Rome alone , And by their Roman dress were only known . Thus when they saw all the deep Mines they made As deeply Countermin'd , their Secrets laid Open to th' vulgar eyes , and each start back , Pale with dread horror at the wondrous tract ; Down to Infernal Regions then they treat , And would a price with Gold for silence beatrice ; Set Female-snares our Hero to entrap , As Sampson once was in a Harlots lap : But his Heroic Soul disdain'd a thing So mean and base ; his care was for his KING And COUNTRIE's safety : for unto the last He Room defi'd , and did her Treasons blast ; Breath'd Piety , and did abhor her Crimes , Repenting him seduc'd in former times ; Shedding of Tears that e're he did embrace The Scarlet Strumpet with a Crimson face , That sacred blood of Saints and Martyrs dy'd , Which had been shed to satiate her pride ; Discovering till the utmost gasp of breath , And more had done , had not the Tyrant Death Snatch'd hence his Soul , envious we should enjoy One that would not permit him to destroy The many hundred thousands , which , had Room Prevail'd , ere this had in a silent Tomb Lain slumbering till the final Trumpets call , A prey for Death , to glut his Jaws withal . O Mourn , Great Britain , since brave BEDLOW's lost , And by a raging Favour hence is toss'd Up to the Confines of Eternal day , Among the bless'd for ever there to stay . He , at the Therrour of whose Name the Pope Oft trembling stood , amaz'd , and lost his hope ; Whom all his haughty Agents dreaded more , Than all beside that trod the British shore . Ours is the loss ; while they rejoice , we grieve ; But 'tis in vain , when sorrow can't relieve : Yet let us not despair , but all submit To what the wise Eternal God thinks fi He , though the worthy Hero's in his Grave , Can raise up more , the selfsame way to save ; Or can by other means defend the Throne Of our just Monarch , Heavens great Viceroy known ; Confound their Hellish Malice as at first , And raise Discovery from brave BEDLOW's dust . The EPITAPH . REader , behold this worthy Hearse , and Mourn ; 'Tis his , whose Noble Soul did dangers scorn ; His , who to save his Country brav'd proud Room , And all her threats both present and to come . Grateful for ever be his Memory ; While ENGLAND's Protestant , he cannot die : Though death to Nature's debt has now laid claim , To Everlasting lives his worthy Name . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Langley Curtiss . 1680. AND ELEGIE Upon the Truly Worthy , and ever-to-be-remembred Loyal Gentleman , Captain WILL . BEDLOW , ENGLAD's Deliverer , and the Scourge of ROME : Who Departed this Life on the 22 of this instant August ; to the great Grief of all True Protestants . With and ACCOUNT of his PIOUS END . ALas ! what sullen Fate has hence convey'd That Soul once Heaven-Inspir'd , whose Wisdom stay'd The baleful Mischiefs of Blood thirsty Room , Baffl'd the Tyrannies , revers'd that Doom Which over us like a black Tempest spread , Just ready for to break on Albions head , And from her Womb ten thousand Murders shed ? Brave BEDLOW , he , who for his Country bold , Disdain'd the Traitor's Bribes , and spurn'd at Gold . His Soul , more Noble still , was bent on good ; Nor could he see Three Kingdoms set in Blood , But restless till he from far distance came , The horrid deeds of darkness to proclaim , Night-brooded secrets , first contriv'd in Hell , By which the Sacrifice of Britain fell , Renowned GODFREY , whose fresh bleeding Wounds The loud Alarm to the Nations sounds . For while to stifle Treasons thus they try'd , They lost their Aims , and Blood for vengeance cry'd From this low Earth , and reach'd the lofty Sky , Where his bless'd Soul wav'd in Eternity ; Then was the far renowned Captain sent , No doubt by him who rules Omnipotent , Who soon expell'd the gloomy shades wherein The horrid Crime so late had acted been ; Unmask'd the blood-bedabl'd Traitors all , While some they fled , the rest did justly fallen , Opening wider yet the fatal PLOT , Which then by thousands was almost forgotten . New Villainies by him were brought to light , In such dire shapes as might the world affright ; Such as the cruel Scythians blush to own ; Dire Treason , fit for Scarlet-Rome alone , And by their Roman dress were only known . Thus when they saw all the deep Mines they made As deeply Countermin'd , their Secrets laid Open to th' vulgar eyes , and each start back , Pale with dread horror at the wondrous tract ; Down to Infernal Regions then they treat , And would a price with Gold for silence beatrice ; Set Female-snares our Hero to entrap , As Sampson once was in a Harlots lap : But his Heroic Soul disdain'd a thing So mean and base ; his care was for his KING And COUNTRIE's safety : for unto the last He Room defi'd , and did her Treasons blast ; Breath'd Piety , and did abhor her Crimes , Repenting him seduc'd in former times ; Shedding of Tears that e're he did embrace The Scarlet Strumpet with a Crimson face , That sacred blood of Saints and Martyrs dy'd , Which had been shed to satiate her pride ; Discovering till the utmost gasp of breath , And more had done , had not the Tyrant Death Snatch'd hence his Soul , envious we should enjoy One that would not permit him to destroy The many hundred thousands , which , had Room Prevail'd , ere this had in a silent Tomb Lain slumbering till the final Trumpets call , A prey for Death , to glut his Jaws withal . O Mourn , Great Britain , since brave BEDLOW's lost , And by a raging Favour hence is toss'd Up to the Confines of Eternal day , Among the bless'd for ever there to stay . He , at the Therrour of whose Name the Pope Oft trembling stood , amaz'd , and lost his hope ; Whom all his haughty Agents dreaded more , Than all beside that trod the British shore . Ours is the loss ; while they rejoice , we grieve ; But 'tis in vain , when sorrow can't relieve : Yet let us not despair , but all submit To what the wise Eternal God thinks fi He , though the worthy Hero's in his Grave , Can raise up more , the selfsame way to save ; Or can by other means defend the Throne Of our just Monarch , Heavens great Viceroy known ; Confound their Hellish Malice as at first , And raise Discovery from brave BEDLOW's dust . The EPITAPH . REader , behold this worthy Hearse , and Mourn ; 'Tis his , whose Noble Soul did dangers scorn ; His , who to save his Country brav'd proud Room , And all her threats both present and to come . Grateful for ever be his Memory ; While ENGLAND's Protestant , he cannot die : Though death to Nature's debt has now laid claim , To Everlasting lives his worthy Name . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Langley Curtiss . 1680. 