A FUNERALL ELEGIE On the unfortunate death of that worthy Major EDWARD GRAY , July 26. 1644. Anagram . Regard I die . No longer I shall foil the Cavalry : But be you watchful , stout , regard , I die . SAd Prodigy ! Can famous valiant Gray Thus silently slide to his bed of Clay ? Return our sorrows , sighs we forth a Verse , May deck the Pomp , and mournings of his Hearse . But 'twere detraction to suppose a Tear , A Sighs , or Blacks , which the sad Mourners wear , Our loss could valve : He that names but thee , Must bring and Eye , that can weep Elegy : Who in his face must wear a Funeral , Clouded with grief for thy untimely fallen . What ill aspected Planet then did lower ? Which then transcendent in that fatal hour ? The splendent Sun could not look on and shine , But's clouded , while thy glory did decline . Hath ireful Mars his spiteful influence bent 'Gainst his own son ? He's still malevolent . Thy part t'hast acted well ; but Tragedy Ill prov'd ; having a sad Catastrophe . Thy sable Curtain was too soon o'respread , Even at thy noon to bring thee to thy bed . Unlucky hand , and heart with fury fir'd , Which passage made whereby thy soul expir'd . Yet we applaud the wisdom of thy fate , Which knew to valve thee at such a rate , That for thy fallen and Hecatomb it cost , And Mynne was offered to appease thy ghost . Thou needest no gilded Tomb , whereon t'engrave , The name of worthy Gray , which thou shalt have , So long as Glouc'ster shall that name retain , Besieged erst by Brittaines Charlemaigne . Thy conquering Arm made thy stout foe to yield ; Thy Sword had won the Trophies in the field . Thy Coat speaks thy high birth , but thine own praise Colonel Mynne slain the same day . Shall crown thine Arms with never-fading Baize . See the Argent-Lyon which hath Rampant stood , Now Couchant lie in Field of Gules and Blood . The Crescent Or , Greys second House does mark , Of famous ancestry the House of Work : But now decrescent is , it's Or's or'espread With Colour Sable , Or is turn'd to Led . Farewell heroic spirit , who art to be Of public sorrow the epitome ; All sighs forth groans , meethinkes the Coats of Blue Are strangely changed into a Sable hew . But sorrow stops me , and my griefe's undrest , And rude in language I'le sighs out the rest . J.A. EDWARD GRAY , Major . Anagrams III I . Though just reward 'mongst men I never may Attain , yet sure God's Mi rewarder ay . II For of Eternity I'me not discarded , Though hence from men I may go irrewarded . III . Though great I was , now in the dust I lie . Great ones your selves , regard , a Worm I die . Respice finem . Psal. 22.6 . Job 25.6 . Chronog . strenWs , & eXpertVs MaIor Gray CaDIt & eXpIraVIt . 1644. J.A. Printed at London for T.W. in the old Baily . 1644. A FUNERALL ELEGIE On the unfortunate death of that worthy Major EDWARD GRAY , July 26. 1644. Anagram . Regard I die . No longer I shall foil the Cavalry : But be you watchful , stout , regard , I die . SAd Prodigy ! Can famous valiant Gray Thus silently slide to his bed of Clay ? Return our sorrows , sighs we forth a Verse , May deck the Pomp , and mournings of his Hearse . But 'twere detraction to suppose a Tear , A Sighs , or Blacks , which the sad Mourners wear , Our loss could valve : He that names but thee , Must bring and Eye , that can weep Elegy : Who in his face must wear a Funeral , Clouded with grief for thy untimely fallen . What ill aspected Planet then did lower ? Which then transcendent in that fatal hour ? The splendent Sun could not look on and shine , But's clouded , while thy glory did decline . Hath ireful Mars his spiteful influence bent 'Gainst his own son ? He's still malevolent . Thy part t'hast acted well ; but Tragedy Ill prov'd ; having a sad Catastrophe . Thy sable Curtain was too soon o'respread , Even at thy noon to bring thee to thy bed . Unlucky hand , and heart with fury fir'd , Which passage made whereby thy soul expir'd . Yet we applaud the wisdom of thy fate , Which knew to valve thee at such a rate , That for thy fallen and Hecatomb it cost , And Mynne was offered to appease thy ghost . Thou needest no gilded Tomb , whereon t'engrave , The name of worthy Gray , which thou shalt have , So long as Glouc'ster shall that name retain , Besieged erst by Brittaines Charlemaigne . Thy conquering Arm made thy stout foe to yield ; Thy Sword had won the Trophies in the field . Thy Coat speaks thy high birth , but thine own praise Colonel Mynne slain the same day . Shall crown thine Arms with never-fading Baize . See the Argent-Lyon which hath Rampant stood , Now Couchant lie in Field of Gules and Blood . The Crescent Or , Greys second House does mark , Of famous ancestry the House of Work : But now decrescent is , it's Or's or'espread With Colour Sable , Or is turn'd to Led . Farewell heroic spirit , who art to be Of public sorrow the epitome ; All sighs forth groans , meethinkes the Coats of Blue Are strangely changed into a Sable hew . But sorrow stops me , and my griefe's undrest , And rude in language I'le sighs out the rest . J.A. EDWARD GRAY , Major . Anagrams III I . Though just reward 'mongst men I never may Attain , yet sure God's Mi rewarder ay . II For of Eternity I'me not discarded , Though hence from men I may go irrewarded . III . Though great I was , now in the dust I lie . Great ones your selves , regard , a Worm I die . Respice finem . Psal. 22.6 . Job 25.6 . Chronog . strenWs , & eXpertVs MaIor Gray CaDIt & eXpIraVIt . 1644. J.A. Printed at London for T.W. in the old Baily . 1644. 