A MEMORIALL TO PRESERVE Unspotted to Posterity the Name and Memory of Doctor CRISPE . YOu that know what truth is , and do now fear , You shall no more her pleasing doctrines hear , Since Doctor Crispe is dead , unless it be From unglos'd Scripture , truth's pure treasury . You that were lately pressed with sin , and found A hell in your own hearts , you that were bound In errors , fetters , and could never see , Though you were Christians cal'd , your liberty Wherein Christ made you free , till this man drew Your veil of darkness off , and form'd you new . You all know how to prize his worth , and can Bear witness with me that he was a man That best deserv'd the Pulpit , that his breast Was full of what he spoke , and did digest His Doctrines first in his own heart , his brain Labour'd with no devices or forced strain To please the easy people , or beget And audience basely by delighting it . He scorn'd that truth should stoop , or be made stale To vicious ends , he hated more to veil Her glorious lustre , or eclipse her light By mingling false lights with her , 'cause mens sighed Is weak and dazzled at her brightness ; no He migh [ tO ] men's common errors foster so . Such as do use such arts do rather aim T' advance themselves then truth , to get a name , And so a living : But this Doctor strove Rather to draw men up to truth and love . To allure them with her sweetness , for no by - Respect , but their own Souls felicity . He knew the power of truth , and therefore us'd No artificial baits , but rather chus'd Instead of words , and the deceitful dress Of popular Eloquence , her own nakedness . 'Twas from his Soul he spoke , and not because He [ m ] ight obtain a Legacy , or applause , N [ ot to ] enhance his tithes or quarter-gifts , [ Nor th ] at he might seem learned : such vile shifts And mercenary arts he did despise ( Though much in fashion now ) as a fit guise For holy seeming Hypocrites , who have made Religion not their practice , but their trade . Truth was his end , and each men good his aim , Men's persons he respected not , but came Freely t'impart glad tidings unto all , The love of God he knew was general . The man in Plush and braver was no more In his esteem then whom the world calls poor ; He look't upon men's Souls , for their array , 'Tis no part of the man whether't be gay Or for necessity , virtue may lie And oftener under rags then Taffety . He was compo'd of love , meek as a Lamb , Without all affectation still the same . Mild in discourse , impassionate , and free From wild contentions of Philosophy , And other nice disputes ; 'bout what is vain , He troubled not his own or others brain . He knew the Apostles no such customs us'd , And therefore only useful Subject's chus'd ; Such as had greatest vigour to remove Long settled errors , and beget true love , To God and man : All his abilities , His Labour , study , health , and faculties , He did employ to do his brothers good , 'Twas chief of his delight , his Souls best food To make men real Christians not in name , But in belief and practice , to the shame Of what most men that bear that title are . His Doctrines ( though since scandal'd ) were so far From giving reins to vice , or Liberty To a lose life and all obscenity , As some that fear their trade will down , object , Whose teaching on their profits still reflec That there's no precepts , no instructions can Beget a godly life , and make a man And honour to that faith he does profess , To abandon lust and all ungodliness , But those firm truths he preached ; for what can more Persuade with men to live well and give o're Whatever misbeseems them or beget Our Saviours own mind in them , then to set Before their eyes what he for them hath done , His boundless love and his Compassion ; How he did pay their desperate debts and free Their Souls from Death's , hells , conscience , Tyranny ; How he did die that death they should have died , Cleared the law , Gods justice satisfied , Aton'd us with his Father , all our fears Dispeld , adopted us his Sons , Coheirs With Christ himself , cast all our proud foes down , Purchas'd a Kingdom for us , and a Crown ; And all this too not when we were his friends , Obedient to his sacred laws , and ends ; But when we were his foes , you when we lay Weltering in blood and sin , and did betray Our only friend , when we did crucify Our Master , and more wicked yet deny The Lord that bought us , that his grace might be Above our wonder , and our eyes might see That he was goodness self , and that his love To man , was all his other works , above , Even in this state he died for us , and paid His precious blood our ransom , then he laid His life down for us and his dignity , That we might live to all eternity . This having done , and knowing 'twas above Us men to comprehend this divine love , ( Nought being within our reach but what does lie In reasons circumscrib'd capacity ) Gods love extended further , knowing well Without the knowledge of his love , a Hell Would still possess us , and a thousand fears Distract our minds , and drown us in sad tears , Our sins being ever present 'fore our eyes , Our sad Souls frighted at our conscience cries , That we might not be left thus comfortless , And ignorant of all our happiness . He sent his blessed Spirit to declare Peace to our Souls , and what our comforts are . Which the same Spirit hath done , to those were sent To tell the same to all , to the intent All tears might be wip't off from our sad eyes , And we left fearless of hells misery's . These were his Doctrines , thus he preached , the same Glad tidings from Gods blessed Spirit came . That Christ hath purchased our Redemption Without our aid , without condition , That 'tis already done , and freely too , Wants no addition from what we can do . Therefore let's please our lustest : Perverse man , no , He nor the Scripture did not conclude so . What waste cons [ trai ] n'd th' Apostles to deny All wordly lustest and to live soberly , To abound in all good works ? What waste say you ? The love of God constrain'd him so to do . Why should the same love then by us be thought The ready way to make us vile and nought ? The holy Scriptures motive for to tie Our Souls and bodies , God to glorify , Is because he hath bought us with a price , And for us paid himself a Sacrifice . The greatest bound on earth is love , if so What greater love then this did man ere know ? Look on his Auditors , see their lives , and say Who have more virtue or more love then they . This was his way to allure men's Souls with sighed Of the most glorious comfortable light Of Gods eternal truth , and not to awe Their sadned Souls , with terrors of the law , Or keep 'em down that so he might subject Their purses and obedience , and erect Their spirits as their contributions rose , He loath'd such Tyrannous practises , and chosen To make men wise and good for their own sake , Strict against Vice , chiefly against such as make Their liberty a cloak to wickedness , And turn the grace of God to wantonness ; Gainst such as these , the shame of men , he would Express and anger great as good men should , They were the chiefest foes Religion had , No enemies so great as they , so bad , Although he knew none of them but by fame Of their ill life , and rumours of their shame . For such howe're that thus abuse the free Goodness of God he knew this remedy . See what good Counsel first will do , and when They'le not return , publicly shame 'em , then If they shall still persist , let justice draw Forth her correcting rod to overawe Their stubborn hearts with fear of punishment ; If then they shall consider and relent With arms of love embrace them , let them see The difference betwixt good life and vanity . If when all this is done they shall remain Vicious men still , or shall return again To their lose life and manners , let them be Excluded quite from all society . Thus discipline should meet with vice , and free The Church from slander , vice , and Calumny . After this brief express of what is true Of my dead Friend , and short of what's his endue , Let no men forward malice strive to cast Dirt on his fame , or with false rumours blast His honest life or Doctrines , because they Perceive some of their audience drop away ; If they shall yet persist A MEMORIALL TO PRESERVE Unspotted to Posterity the Name and Memory of Doctor CRISPE . YOu that know what truth is , and do now fear , You shall no more her pleasing doctrines hear , Since Doctor Crispe is dead , unless it be From unglos'd Scripture , truth's pure treasury . You that were lately pressed with sin , and found A hell in your own hearts , you that were bound In errors , fetters , and could never see , Though you were Christians cal'd , your liberty Wherein Christ made you free , till this man drew Your veil of darkness off , and form'd you new . You all know how to prize his worth , and can Bear witness with me that he was a man That best deserv'd the Pulpit , that his breast Was full of what he spoke , and did digest His Doctrines first in his own heart , his brain Labour'd with no devices or forced strain To please the easy people , or beget And audience basely by delighting it . He scorn'd that truth should stoop , or be made stale To vicious ends , he hated more to veil Her glorious lustre , or eclipse her light By mingling false lights with her , 'cause mens sighed Is weak and dazzled at her brightness ; no He migh [ tO ] men's common errors foster so . Such as do use such arts do rather aim T' advance themselves then truth , to get a name , And so a living : But this Doctor strove Rather to draw men up to truth and love . To allure them with her sweetness , for no by - Respect , but their own Souls felicity . He knew the power of truth , and therefore us'd No artificial baits , but rather chus'd Instead of words , and the deceitful dress Of popular Eloquence , her own nakedness . 'Twas from his Soul he spoke , and not because He [ m ] ight obtain a Legacy , or applause , N [ ot to ] enhance his tithes or quarter-gifts , [ Nor th ] at he might seem learned : such vile shifts And mercenary arts he did despise ( Though much in fashion now ) as a fit guise For holy seeming Hypocrites , who have made Religion not their practice , but their trade . Truth was his end , and each men good his aim , Men's persons he respected not , but came Freely t'impart glad tidings unto all , The love of God he knew was general . The man in Plush and braver was no more In his esteem then whom the world calls poor ; He look't upon men's Souls , for their array , 'Tis no part of the man whether't be gay Or for necessity , virtue may lie And oftener under rags then Taffety . He was compo'd of love , meek as a Lamb , Without all affectation still the same . Mild in discourse , impassionate , and free From wild contentions of Philosophy , And other nice disputes ; 'bout what is vain , He troubled not his own or others brain . He knew the Apostles no such customs us'd , And therefore only useful Subject's chus'd ; Such as had greatest vigour to remove Long settled errors , and beget true love , To God and man : All his abilities , His Labour , study , health , and faculties , He did employ to do his brothers good , 'Twas chief of his delight , his Souls best food To make men real Christians not in name , But in belief and practice , to the shame Of what most men that bear that title are . His Doctrines ( though since scandal'd ) were so far From giving reins to vice , or Liberty To a lose life and all obscenity , As some that fear their trade will down , object , Whose teaching on their profits still reflec That there's no precepts , no instructions can Beget a godly life , and make a man And honour to that faith he does profess , To abandon lust and all ungodliness , But those firm truths he preached ; for what can more Persuade with men to live well and give o're Whatever misbeseems them or beget Our Saviours own mind in them , then to set Before their eyes what he for them hath done , His boundless love and his Compassion ; How he did pay their desperate debts and free Their Souls from Death's , hells , conscience , Tyranny ; How he did die that death they should have died , Cleared the law , Gods justice satisfied , Aton'd us with his Father , all our fears Dispeld , adopted us his Sons , Coheirs With Christ himself , cast all our proud foes down , Purchas'd a Kingdom for us , and a Crown ; And all this too not when we were his friends , Obedient to his sacred laws , and ends ; But when we were his foes , you when we lay Weltering in blood and sin , and did betray Our only friend , when we did crucify Our Master , and more wicked yet deny The Lord that bought us , that his grace might be Above our wonder , and our eyes might see That he was goodness self , and that his love To man , was all his other works , above , Even in this state he died for us , and paid His precious blood our ransom , then he laid His life down for us and his dignity , That we might live to all eternity . This having done , and knowing 'twas above Us men to comprehend this divine love , ( Nought being within our reach but what does lie In reasons circumscrib'd capacity ) Gods love extended further , knowing well Without the knowledge of his love , a Hell Would still possess us , and a thousand fears Distract our minds , and drown us in sad tears , Our sins being ever present 'fore our eyes , Our sad Souls frighted at our conscience cries , That we might not be left thus comfortless , And ignorant of all our happiness . He sent his blessed Spirit to declare Peace to our Souls , and what our comforts are . Which the same Spirit hath done , to those were sent To tell the same to all , to the intent All tears might be wip't off from our sad eyes , And we left fearless of hells misery's . These were his Doctrines , thus he preached , the same Glad tidings from Gods blessed Spirit came . That Christ hath purchased our Redemption Without our aid , without condition , That 'tis already done , and freely too , Wants no addition from what we can do . Therefore let's please our lustest : Perverse man , no , He nor the Scripture did not conclude so . What waste cons [ trai ] n'd th' Apostles to deny All wordly lustest and to live soberly , To abound in all good works ? What waste say you ? The love of God constrain'd him so to do . Why should the same love then by us be thought The ready way to make us vile and nought ? The holy Scriptures motive for to tie Our Souls and bodies , God to glorify , Is because he hath bought us with a price , And for us paid himself a Sacrifice . The greatest bound on earth is love , if so What greater love then this did man ere know ? Look on his Auditors , see their lives , and say Who have more virtue or more love then they . This was his way to allure men's Souls with sighed Of the most glorious comfortable light Of Gods eternal truth , and not to awe Their sadned Souls , with terrors of the law , Or keep 'em down that so he might subject Their purses and obedience , and erect Their spirits as their contributions rose , He loath'd such Tyrannous practises , and chosen To make men wise and good for their own sake , Strict against Vice , chiefly against such as make Their liberty a cloak to wickedness , And turn the grace of God to wantonness ; Gainst such as these , the shame of men , he would Express and anger great as good men should , They were the chiefest foes Religion had , No enemies so great as they , so bad , Although he knew none of them but by fame Of their ill life , and rumours of their shame . For such howe're that thus abuse the free Goodness of God he knew this remedy . See what good Counsel first will do , and when They'le not return , publicly shame 'em , then If they shall still persist , let justice draw Forth her correcting rod to overawe Their stubborn hearts with fear of punishment ; If then they shall consider and relent With arms of love embrace them , let them see The difference betwixt good life and vanity . If when all this is done they shall remain Vicious men still , or shall return again To their lose life and manners , let them be Excluded quite from all society . Thus discipline should meet with vice , and free The Church from slander , vice , and Calumny . After this brief express of what is true Of my dead Friend , and short of what's his endue , Let no men forward malice strive to cast Dirt on his fame , or with false rumours blast His honest life or Doctrines , because they Perceive some of their audience drop away ; If they shall yet persist and vainly show They fear truth will yet thrive , let such men know I do denounce 'em mine and plain truths foes : He that can bite in verse , can sting in prose . FINIS . Printed at London for John Sweating . 1643. and vainly show They fear truth will yet thrive , let such men know I do denounce 'em mine and plain truths foes : He that can bite in verse , can sting in prose . FINIS . Printed at London for John Sweating . 1643. 