And ANSWER TO THE Scotch HAY-MAKERS . Tune of , It within a Furlong of Edenborough Town . ATtend young Lasses all of Edenborough Town , I was esteem'd a Beauty late of great renown ; But now alas , my Folly has made me melancholy , Since Jockey's gone , and I undone , under what grief I lie , By being wedded unto and Old Man ; It Father and my Mother did always put me on , Cause he had riches too , but alas that will not do , O Jockey , Jockey , Jockey , Jockey , why deny'd I you . I Fifteen years have passed , and kept my Maidenhead , And longer like to keep it although that I am wed , For and old Man girls you know that can scarcely stand or go How should he love and nimbly move alas it can't be so Which makes me all the night sighs and cry , O why did I kind Jockey so oftentimes deny , For when that he would do , then did I pish and pooh , Crying cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . How Jockey kiss'd and hugg'd me upon a Cock of Hay , [ A ] and I , like a silly Jade , said take your hand away , [ C ] rying Jockey fie , Oh fie , O you shannot come so nigh , [ Y ] ou're like a Devil , much uncivil I'll cry out by'nd by , [ H ] ad I then known but what I do now , [ I ] de not a hindered Jockey , Oh no , not I , I vow , [ B ] ut would consent to do , without a pish or pooh , [ A ] and never , never , never cry'd , I wonnot buckle too . But now the knot is ty'd to a man of threescore year , Who's snoring all the night while I'm shedding many a tear Welladay how am I sped , and unto and old man wed , Hang melancholy , farewell folly , and my doting Ned. Jockey I will find for he is kind , Oh what a foolish Girl was I , I was not of his mind , But needs must pish and pooh , and cry it shannot do , Oh silly , silly silly , fool I did not buckle too . Jockey overheard Jennys Complaint . My fairest Jenny now I love thee muckle more , For sike a bonny Lass I'm never saw before , I did hear thee much complain , and wished to be loos'd again , Come let us trip it to yond Thicket , where we will remain , And there love embraces we will taste , Then straight he flung his Arms about her slender waste , Crying , love now we will do now without a pish or pooh , So together , gether , gether went they without more ado . Straight this loving Couple god to the shady Grove , Oh then how kindly Jenny embraced Jockeys love , It a pleasant Sunshiny day , when they sat among the Hay Then Jockey kissing , sweetly pressing , Jenny never said nay , But fetched her breath short as if she'd die , So Jockey and kind Jenny most lovingly did lie . She neither pisht nor pooh , but freely buckl'd too , While Jockey , Jockey , Jockey did what he'd a mind to do . Printed for Charles Barnet . And ANSWER TO THE Scotch HAY-MAKERS . Tune of , It within a Furlong of Edenborough Town . ATtend young Lasses all of Edenborough Town , I was esteem'd a Beauty late of great renown ; But now alas , my Folly has made me melancholy , Since Jockey's gone , and I undone , under what grief I lie , By being wedded unto and Old Man ; It Father and my Mother did always put me on , Cause he had riches too , but alas that will not do , O Jockey , Jockey , Jockey , Jockey , why deny'd I you . I Fifteen years have passed , and kept my Maidenhead , And longer like to keep it although that I am wed , For and old Man girls you know that can scarcely stand or go How should he love and nimbly move alas it can't be so Which makes me all the night sighs and cry , O why did I kind Jockey so oftentimes deny , For when that he would do , then did I pish and pooh , Crying cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . How Jockey kiss'd and hugg'd me upon a Cock of Hay , [ A ] and I , like a silly Jade , said take your hand away , [ C ] rying Jockey fie , Oh fie , O you shannot come so nigh , [ Y ] ou're like a Devil , much uncivil I'll cry out by'nd by , [ H ] ad I then known but what I do now , [ I ] de not a hindered Jockey , Oh no , not I , I vow , [ B ] ut would consent to do , without a pish or pooh , [ A ] and never , never , never cry'd , I wonnot buckle too . But now the knot is ty'd to a man of threescore year , Who's snoring all the night while I'm shedding many a tear Welladay how am I sped , and unto and old man wed , Hang melancholy , farewell folly , and my doting Ned. Jockey I will find for he is kind , Oh what a foolish Girl was I , I was not of his mind , But needs must pish and pooh , and cry it shannot do , Oh silly , silly silly , fool I did not buckle too . Jockey overheard Jennys Complaint . My fairest Jenny now I love thee muckle more , For sike a bonny Lass I'm never saw before , I did hear thee much complain , and wished to be loos'd again , Come let us trip it to yond Thicket , where we will remain , And there love embraces we will taste , Then straight he flung his Arms about her slender waste , Crying , love now we will do now without a pish or pooh , So together , gether , gether went they without more ado . Straight this loving Couple god to the shady Grove , Oh then how kindly Jenny embraced Jockeys love , It a pleasant Sunshiny day , when they sat among the Hay Then Jockey kissing , sweetly pressing , Jenny never said nay , But fetched her breath short as if she'd die , So Jockey and kind Jenny most lovingly did lie . She neither pisht nor pooh , but freely buckl'd too , While Jockey , Jockey , Jockey did what he'd a mind to do . Printed for Charles Barnet . 