England's New Bell-Man . Ringing into all Peoples Ears , God's Dreadful Judgement to this Land and King - dom , Prognosticated by the great Eclipse of the Sun , March 29. 1652. the strange Effects to continue , 1654 , 1655 , 1656. to the Amazement of the whole World . To the Tune of , Oh Man in Disperation . AWake , awake , Oh England , sweet England now awake And to thy Prayers speedily , do thou thy self betake ; The Lord thy God is coming within the Sky so clear , Repent therefore Oh England , the day that draws near . The dreadful day of vengeance , is shortly now at hand , When fearful burning fire , shall waste both Sea and Land ; And all means hearts shall fail them to see such things appear , Repent , etc The worldly wise and prudent , shall fallen beside their wits , And wish the Hills to fallen on them , in these their frantic fits : No succour , help nor comfort , for them shall then appear , Repent , etc The Seas and Rivers running , shall roar in grievous wise , The Beasts in Pastures feeding , still strain forth grievous cries . The Skies shall flame with fire , the Earth shall burn so clear , Repent therefore Oh England , the day it draws near . The glorious holy Angels , shall then their Trumpees found The dead shall hear their voices , as they lie in the ground ; Then all the Graves shall open , and dead men shall appear , Repent , etc The Devil will be ready then , each Creature to accuse ; And show how in their life time , they did themselves abuse ; And every men own Consceience , for witness shall appear , Repent , etc The works of every creature , their thoughts and deeds I say , Shall follow them together , in that most dreadful day : And no respect of persons , shall at that day appear , Repent therefore Oh England the day it draws near . BUt such as have done justly , shall wear the Crown of Life ; The wicked shall be Damned , to sorrow , pain and grief : In boiling brans of Brimstone , with doleful heavy cheer , Repent therefore Oh England , the day it draws near . But woe unto that woman , which then with Child shall go , And to the silly Nurse's , which do give Suck also ; When as the day of Judgement so grievous shall appear , Repent , etc And pray with tears most constant , unto the Lord of might , That in the frozen winter you do not take your fligh Nor that upon the Sabbath , that peril do appear , Repent , etc Let all good Christian people , repent therefore in time ; And from their hearts lamenting , each former grievous crime : Prepare themselves with gladness , to watch when Christ shall come ; The trump shall found , and sudden , and no man knows how soon : Repent , etc For all things are fulfilled , which Christ before had told , Small Faith is now remaining , and Charity's grown cold ; Great signs & wonders we have seen within the Earth and Sky , Repent , etc Why dost thou put thy confidence in strong and stately Towers , Why takest thou such pleasure , in building sumptuous Bowers : Rejoicing in thy Pastures , and Park of fallow Dear ; Repent , etc Why seekest thou deceitfully to purchase treasure great , Or why does thou through Usury , the bred of poor Men eat ? Why does the life and living , so filthily appear ; Repent , etc Wherefore let all good people upon their knees proceed , In making earnest Prayer for never was more need ; That God may spare the punishment even for his mercy mere , And give Grace to bear in mind , the Judgement day is near . FINIS . Printed for A.M. W.O. and Tho. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . England's New Bell-Man . Ringing into all Peoples Ears , God's Dreadful Judgement to this Land and King - dom , Prognosticated by the great Eclipse of the Sun , March 29. 1652. the strange Effects to continue , 1654 , 1655 , 1656. to the Amazement of the whole World . To the Tune of , Oh Man in Disperation . AWake , awake , Oh England , sweet England now awake And to thy Prayers speedily , do thou thy self betake ; The Lord thy God is coming within the Sky so clear , Repent therefore Oh England , the day that draws near . The dreadful day of vengeance , is shortly now at hand , When fearful burning fire , shall waste both Sea and Land ; And all means hearts shall fail them to see such things appear , Repent , etc The worldly wise and prudent , shall fallen beside their wits , And wish the Hills to fallen on them , in these their frantic fits : No succour , help nor comfort , for them shall then appear , Repent , etc The Seas and Rivers running , shall roar in grievous wise , The Beasts in Pastures feeding , still strain forth grievous cries . The Skies shall flame with fire , the Earth shall burn so clear , Repent therefore Oh England , the day it draws near . The glorious holy Angels , shall then their Trumpees found The dead shall hear their voices , as they lie in the ground ; Then all the Graves shall open , and dead men shall appear , Repent , etc The Devil will be ready then , each Creature to accuse ; And show how in their life time , they did themselves abuse ; And every men own Consceience , for witness shall appear , Repent , etc The works of every creature , their thoughts and deeds I say , Shall follow them together , in that most dreadful day : And no respect of persons , shall at that day appear , Repent therefore Oh England the day it draws near . BUt such as have done justly , shall wear the Crown of Life ; The wicked shall be Damned , to sorrow , pain and grief : In boiling brans of Brimstone , with doleful heavy cheer , Repent therefore Oh England , the day it draws near . But woe unto that woman , which then with Child shall go , And to the silly Nurse's , which do give Suck also ; When as the day of Judgement so grievous shall appear , Repent , etc And pray with tears most constant , unto the Lord of might , That in the frozen winter you do not take your fligh Nor that upon the Sabbath , that peril do appear , Repent , etc Let all good Christian people , repent therefore in time ; And from their hearts lamenting , each former grievous crime : Prepare themselves with gladness , to watch when Christ shall come ; The trump shall found , and sudden , and no man knows how soon : Repent , etc For all things are fulfilled , which Christ before had told , Small Faith is now remaining , and Charity's grown cold ; Great signs & wonders we have seen within the Earth and Sky , Repent , etc Why dost thou put thy confidence in strong and stately Towers , Why takest thou such pleasure , in building sumptuous Bowers : Rejoicing in thy Pastures , and Park of fallow Dear ; Repent , etc Why seekest thou deceitfully to purchase treasure great , Or why does thou through Usury , the bred of poor Men eat ? Why does the life and living , so filthily appear ; Repent , etc Wherefore let all good people upon their knees proceed , In making earnest Prayer for never was more need ; That God may spare the punishment even for his mercy mere , And give Grace to bear in mind , the Judgement day is near . FINIS . Printed for A.M. W.O. and Tho. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . 