The Four INDIAN KINGS . In TWO PARTS . Part I . How a beautiful Lady conquered one of the Indian Kings . ATend unto a true relation , Of four Indian kings of late , Who came to this Christian nation , To report their sorrows great , Which by France they had sustained To the overthrow of trade ; That the seas might be regained , Who are come to beg our aid . Having told their sad condition , To our good and gracious queen With a humble low submission , Mixed with a courteous mein . Noble they were all received In bold Britain's royal court . Many lords and ladies grieved , At these Indian king's report . Now their message being ended , To the queen's great majesty ; They were further befriended Of the noble standers by . With a glance of Britain's glory , Buildings , troops , and many things , But now comes a pressing story , Love seiz'd one of these four kings . Thus , as it was then related , Walking forth to take the air , In St. JAMES's PARK there waited Troops of handsome ladies fair , Rich and gaudily attir'd , Rubies , jewels , diamond rings . One fair lady was admir'd By the youngest of those kings . While he did his pain discover , Often sighing to the rest ; Like a broken hearted lover , Oft he smote upon his breast . Breaking forth in lamentation , O , the pains that I endure ! The young ladies of this nation , They are more than mortals sure . In his language he related , How her angel beauty bright , His great heart had captivated , Ever since she appear'd in sighed . Tho' there are some fair and pretty Youthful , proper , strait , and tall , In this Christian land and city , Yet she far excels them all . Were I worthy of her favour , Which is much better then gold , Then I might enjoy forever , Charming blessings manifold . But I fear she cannot love me , I must hope for no such thing : That sweet saint is far above me , Altho' I am and Indian king . Let me sign but my petition , Unto that lady fair and clear : Let her know my sad condition , How I languish under her . If on me , after this trial , She will no eye of pity cast , But return a flat denial , Friends I can but die at last . If I fallen by this distraction , Thro' a lady's cruelty ; [ I ] tO is some satisfaction That I do a martyr die Unto the goddess of great beauty , Brighter then the morning day : Sure no greater piece of duty No poor captive love can pay . O this fatal burning fever , Gives me little hope's of life , If so that I cannot have her For my love and lawful wife . Bear to her this royal token , Tell her 'tis my diamond ring ; Pray her that it mayn't be spoken , She'll destroy and Indian King . Who is able to advance her In our fine America , Let me soon receive and answer , From her hand without delay . Every minute seems and hour , Every hour six , I'm sure ; Tell her it is in her power At this time to kill or cure . Tell her that you see me ready To expire for her sake ; And as she is a Christian lady , Sure she will some pity take . I shall long for your returning From that pure unspoted dove , All the while I do lie burning , Wrapped in scorching flames of love . PART II The Lady's Answer to the Indian King's Request . I Will fly with your petition Unto that lady fair and clear , For to tell your sad condition , I will to her parents bear . Show her how you do adore her , And lie bleeding for her sake ; Having laid the cause before her , She perhaps may pity take . Ladies that are apt to glory In their youthful birth and state , So here I'll rehearse the story Of their being truly great . So farewell , sir , for a season , I will soon return again : If she's but endow'd with reason , Labour is not spent in vain . Having found her habitation , Which with diligence he sought , Tho' renown'd in her station , She was to his presence brought . Where he labour'd to discover How his lord and master lay , Like a pensive wounded lover , By her charms the other day . As a token of his honour , He has sent this ring of gold Set with diamonds . Save the owner , For his griefs are manifold . Life and death are both depending On what answer you can give , Here he lies your charms commending Grant him love that he may live . You may tell your lord and master , Said the charming lady fair , Tho' I pity his disaster , Being catch'd in Cupid's snare This against all true discretion , To comply with what I scorn : He's a Heathen by profession , I a Christian bred and born . Was he king of many nations , Crowns and royal dignity , And I born of mean relations , You may tell him that from me As long as I have life and breathing My true God I will adore , Nor will ever wed a Heathen , For the richest Indian store . I have had my education From my Infant blooming youth , In this Christian land and nation , Where the blessed word and truth Is to be enjoy'd with pleasure , among Christians kind and mild , Which is more then all the treasure Can be had with Heathens wild . Madam , let me be admitted Once to speak in his defence ; If he here then may be pity'd , Breath not forth such violence . He and all the rest were telling How well they lik'd this place ; And declared themselves right willing To receive the light of grace . So then , lady , be not cruel , His unhappy state condole ; Q [ u ] ench the flame , abate the fuel , Spare his life , and seve his soul Since it lies within your power Either to destroy or save , Send him word this happy hour That you'll heal the wound you gave . While the messenger he pleaded With this noble virtuous maid , All the words then she minded Which his master he had said . Then she spoke like one concerned , Tell your master this from me , Let him , let him first be turned From his gross Idolatry . If he will become a Christian , Live up to the truth reveal'd , I will make him grant the question , Or before will never yield Altho' he was pleased to send to me , His fine ring and diamond stone , With this answer pray commend To your master yet unknown . The Four INDIAN KINGS . In TWO PARTS . Part I . How a beautiful Lady conquered one of the Indian Kings . ATend unto a true relation , Of four Indian kings of late , Who came to this Christian nation , To report their sorrows great , Which by France they had sustained To the overthrow of trade ; That the seas might be regained , Who are come to beg our aid . Having told their sad condition , To our good and gracious queen With a humble low submission , Mixed with a courteous mein . Noble they were all received In bold Britain's royal court . Many lords and ladies grieved , At these Indian king's report . Now their message being ended , To the queen's great majesty ; They were further befriended Of the noble standers by . With a glance of Britain's glory , Buildings , troops , and many things , But now comes a pressing story , Love seiz'd one of these four kings . Thus , as it was then related , Walking forth to take the air , In St. JAMES's PARK there waited Troops of handsome ladies fair , Rich and gaudily attir'd , Rubies , jewels , diamond rings . One fair lady was admir'd By the youngest of those kings . While he did his pain discover , Often sighing to the rest ; Like a broken hearted lover , Oft he smote upon his breast . Breaking forth in lamentation , O , the pains that I endure ! The young ladies of this nation , They are more than mortals sure . In his language he related , How her angel beauty bright , His great heart had captivated , Ever since she appear'd in sighed . Tho' there are some fair and pretty Youthful , proper , strait , and tall , In this Christian land and city , Yet she far excels them all . Were I worthy of her favour , Which is much better then gold , Then I might enjoy forever , Charming blessings manifold . But I fear she cannot love me , I must hope for no such thing : That sweet saint is far above me , Altho' I am and Indian king . Let me sign but my petition , Unto that lady fair and clear : Let her know my sad condition , How I languish under her . If on me , after this trial , She will no eye of pity cast , But return a flat denial , Friends I can but die at last . If I fallen by this distraction , Thro' a lady's cruelty ; [ I ] tO is some satisfaction That I do a martyr die Unto the goddess of great beauty , Brighter then the morning day : Sure no greater piece of duty No poor captive love can pay . O this fatal burning fever , Gives me little hope's of life , If so that I cannot have her For my love and lawful wife . Bear to her this royal token , Tell her 'tis my diamond ring ; Pray her that it mayn't be spoken , She'll destroy and Indian King . Who is able to advance her In our fine America , Let me soon receive and answer , From her hand without delay . Every minute seems and hour , Every hour six , I'm sure ; Tell her it is in her power At this time to kill or cure . Tell her that you see me ready To expire for her sake ; And as she is a Christian lady , Sure she will some pity take . I shall long for your returning From that pure unspoted dove , All the while I do lie burning , Wrapped in scorching flames of love . PART II The Lady's Answer to the Indian King's Request . I Will fly with your petition Unto that lady fair and clear , For to tell your sad condition , I will to her parents bear . Show her how you do adore her , And lie bleeding for her sake ; Having laid the cause before her , She perhaps may pity take . Ladies that are apt to glory In their youthful birth and state , So here I'll rehearse the story Of their being truly great . So farewell , sir , for a season , I will soon return again : If she's but endow'd with reason , Labour is not spent in vain . Having found her habitation , Which with diligence he sought , Tho' renown'd in her station , She was to his presence brought . Where he labour'd to discover How his lord and master lay , Like a pensive wounded lover , By her charms the other day . As a token of his honour , He has sent this ring of gold Set with diamonds . Save the owner , For his griefs are manifold . Life and death are both depending On what answer you can give , Here he lies your charms commending Grant him love that he may live . You may tell your lord and master , Said the charming lady fair , Tho' I pity his disaster , Being catch'd in Cupid's snare This against all true discretion , To comply with what I scorn : He's a Heathen by profession , I a Christian bred and born . Was he king of many nations , Crowns and royal dignity , And I born of mean relations , You may tell him that from me As long as I have life and breathing My true God I will adore , Nor will ever wed a Heathen , For the richest Indian store . I have had my education From my Infant blooming youth , In this Christian land and nation , Where the blessed word and truth Is to be enjoy'd with pleasure , among Christians kind and mild , Which is more then all the treasure Can be had with Heathens wild . Madam , let me be admitted Once to speak in his defence ; If he here then may be pity'd , Breath not forth such violence . He and all the rest were telling How well they lik'd this place ; And declared themselves right willing To receive the light of grace . So then , lady , be not cruel , His unhappy state condole ; Q [ u ] ench the flame , abate the fuel , Spare his life , and seve his soul Since it lies within your power Either to destroy or save , Send him word this happy hour That you'll heal the wound you gave . While the messenger he pleaded With this noble virtuous maid , All the words then she minded Which his master he had said . Then she spoke like one concerned , Tell your master this from me , Let him , let him first be turned From his gross Idolatry . If he will become a Christian , Live up to the truth reveal'd , I will make him grant the question , Or before will never yield Altho' he was pleased to send to me , His fine ring and diamond stone , With this answer pray commend To your master yet unknown . 