The BERKSHIRE Lady In FOUR PARTS . PART I . BAtchelors of e'ery Station , Mark this strange but true Relation , Which in brief to you I bring , Never was a stranger Thing . You shall find it worth your Hearing , Loyal Love is most endearing , When it takes the deepest Root , Yielding Gold and Charms to boot . Some will wed for Store of Treasure ; But the greatest Joy and Pleasure Is in faithful Love , you'll find , Graced with a noble Mind . Such a noble Disposition Had the Lady , with Submission , Of whom I this Sonnet write : Store of Wealth , and Beauty bright . She had left by and old Grannum Full five thousand Pounds per Annum , Which she held without Conrroul : Thus she did in Riches roll . Tho' she had vast Store of Riches , Which some Persons much bewitches ; Yet she boar a courteous Mind , Not in the least to Pride inclin'd . Many noble Persons courted This young Lady , 'tis reported ; But their Labour prov'd in vain : They could not her Love obtain . Tho' she made a strong Resistance , Yet by Cupid's kind Assistance She was conquer'd after all . How it was , declare I shall . Being at a noble Wedding , Near the famous Town of Reading : A young Gentleman she saw , Who belonged to the Law . As she view'd his sweet Behaviour . Every courteous Carriage gave her New Addition to her Grief , Forc'd she was to seek Relief . Privately she then enquir'd About him she so admir'd , Both his Name and where he dwelled , Such were the hight Flames she felt . Then at Night this youthful Lady Call'd her Coach , which being ready Homeward then she did return , But her Heart with Flames did burn . PART II Night and Morning for a Season , In her Closet she would reason With herself , and often said , He has my poor Heart betray'd . I that have so many slighted , Am at length as well requited , For my Griefs are not a few . Now I find what Love can do . He that has my Heart in Keeping , Tho' I for his Sake lie weeping . Little knows what Grief I feel , But I'll try it out with Steel . For I will a Challenge send him , And appoint where I'll attend him : In a Grove without Delay . By the Dawning of the Day . He shan't in the least discover , That I am a wounded Lover : By the Challenge which I send , But for Justice I contend . He has caused such Distraction , And I will have Satisfaction . Which if he denies to give , One of us shall cease to live . Having thus her Mind revealed , She a Letter sign'd and sealed ; Which when it came to his Hand , The young Man was at a stand . In the Letter she conjur'd him , For to meet , and well assur'd him , Recompense he must afford , Or dispute it with his Sword . Having read this strange Relation , He was in a Consternation ; But advising with a Friend , He persuades him to attend . Be of Courage , and make ready , Faint Heart never wone fair Lady , In regard it must be so , I along with you will go . PART III . Early on a Summer's Morning When bright Phoebus was adorning . Every Bower with his Beams : This young Lady came it seems . At the Bottom of a Mountain , Near a pleasant crystal Fountain , There she left her gilded Coach , While she did the Grove approach . Cover'd with a Mask , and walking , There she met her Lover talking , With a Friend that he had brought . So she asked whom he sought . I am challeng'd by a Gallant , And resolve to show my Talon , Who he is I cannot say . But resolve to show him play . ( Lady ) It was I that did invite you , You shall wed me , or I'll fight you , Underneath these spreading Trees , Therefore choose you which you please . You shall find I do not vapour , For I have a trusty Rapier , So now take your Choice said she , Either fight or marry me . Said he , Madam , pray what mean you ? In my Life I ne'er have seen you , Pray unmask , your Visage show , Then I'll tell you ay or no . ( Lady ) I will not my Face uncover , Till the Marriage-Rites are over . Therefore take you which you will , Wed me , Sir , or try your Skill . Step within this pleasant Bower , With your Friend one single Hour , Strive your Mind to reconcile , I will wander here the while . While the beauteous Lady waited , The young Bachelor debated , What was best for to be done , Said his Friend , the Hazard run . If my Judgement may be trusted , Wed her , Sir , you can't be worsted , If she's rich , you rise to Fame , If she's poor , you're the same . He consented to be Married , All three in a Coach were carried , Unto the Church without Delay , Where he weds the Lady gay . Those sweet little Cupids hover'd , Round her Eyes , her Face was cover'd with a Mask . He took her thus Just for better or for worse . With a courteous kind Behaviour , She presents his Friend a Favour . Then she did dismiss him strait , That he might no longer wait . PART IV. As the gilded Coach stood ready , The young Lawyer and the Lady . Rode together till they came , Unto a House of State and Fame . Which appeared like a Castle , Where you might behold a parcel Of young Cedars tall and strait Just before the Palace Gate . Hand-in-Hand they walk'd together , To a Hall , or Parlour rather , Which was beautiful and fair , All alone she left him there . Two long Hours there he waited Her return , at length he fretted , And began to grieve at last , For he had not broke his Fast . Still he sat like one amazed , Round a spacious Room he gazed , Which was richly beautify'd . But alas ! he'd lost his Bride . There was peeping , laughing , fleering . All within the Lawyer's Hearing , But his Bride he could not see , Wou'd I were at Home , said he . While his Heart was Melancholy , Said the Steward brisk and jolly . Show me Friend , how came you here ? You've some bad Design I fear . He reply'd , dear loving Master , You shall meet with no Disaster , Thro' my Means , in any Case . Madam brought me to this Place . Then the Steward did retlre , Saying , now I will inquire , Whither this is true or no ; Never was Lover hamper'd so . Now the Lady that had fill'd him With this Fear , full oft beheld him , From a window as she dressed , Pleased at the merry Jest . When she had herself attir'd , In rich Robes to be admir'd . Like a moving Angel bright She appear'd in his Sighed . ( Lady ) Sir my Servants have related , How some Hours you have waited In my Parlour , tell we who In my House you ever knew . Madam , if I have offended , It is more than I intended ; A young Lady brought me here , That is true , said she , my Dear . I will be no longer cruel To my Joy and only Jewel ; Thou art mine , and I am thine , Hand and Heart I will resign . Once I was a wounded Lover But now all those Fears are cleanly over , By receiving what I gave , Thou art Lord of all I have . Beauty , Honour , Love and Treasure , A rich Golden Stream of Pleasure , With his Love he now enjoys Thanks to Cupid's kind Decoys . Now he's cloath'd in rich Attire , Not inferior to a Squire , Beauty , Honour , Riches store . What can a Man desire more ? Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The BERKSHIRE Lady In FOUR PARTS . PART I . BAtchelors of e'ery Station , Mark this strange but true Relation , Which in brief to you I bring , Never was a stranger Thing . You shall find it worth your Hearing , Loyal Love is most endearing , When it takes the deepest Root , Yielding Gold and Charms to boot . Some will wed for Store of Treasure ; But the greatest Joy and Pleasure Is in faithful Love , you'll find , Graced with a noble Mind . Such a noble Disposition Had the Lady , with Submission , Of whom I this Sonnet write : Store of Wealth , and Beauty bright . She had left by and old Grannum Full five thousand Pounds per Annum , Which she held without Conrroul : Thus she did in Riches roll . Tho' she had vast Store of Riches , Which some Persons much bewitches ; Yet she boar a courteous Mind , Not in the least to Pride inclin'd . Many noble Persons courted This young Lady , 'tis reported ; But their Labour prov'd in vain : They could not her Love obtain . Tho' she made a strong Resistance , Yet by Cupid's kind Assistance She was conquer'd after all . How it was , declare I shall . Being at a noble Wedding , Near the famous Town of Reading : A young Gentleman she saw , Who belonged to the Law . As she view'd his sweet Behaviour . Every courteous Carriage gave her New Addition to her Grief , Forc'd she was to seek Relief . Privately she then enquir'd About him she so admir'd , Both his Name and where he dwelled , Such were the hight Flames she felt . Then at Night this youthful Lady Call'd her Coach , which being ready Homeward then she did return , But her Heart with Flames did burn . PART II Night and Morning for a Season , In her Closet she would reason With herself , and often said , He has my poor Heart betray'd . I that have so many slighted , Am at length as well requited , For my Griefs are not a few . Now I find what Love can do . He that has my Heart in Keeping , Tho' I for his Sake lie weeping . Little knows what Grief I feel , But I'll try it out with Steel . For I will a Challenge send him , And appoint where I'll attend him : In a Grove without Delay . By the Dawning of the Day . He shan't in the least discover , That I am a wounded Lover : By the Challenge which I send , But for Justice I contend . He has caused such Distraction , And I will have Satisfaction . Which if he denies to give , One of us shall cease to live . Having thus her Mind revealed , She a Letter sign'd and sealed ; Which when it came to his Hand , The young Man was at a stand . In the Letter she conjur'd him , For to meet , and well assur'd him , Recompense he must afford , Or dispute it with his Sword . Having read this strange Relation , He was in a Consternation ; But advising with a Friend , He persuades him to attend . Be of Courage , and make ready , Faint Heart never wone fair Lady , In regard it must be so , I along with you will go . PART III . Early on a Summer's Morning When bright Phoebus was adorning . Every Bower with his Beams : This young Lady came it seems . At the Bottom of a Mountain , Near a pleasant crystal Fountain , There she left her gilded Coach , While she did the Grove approach . Cover'd with a Mask , and walking , There she met her Lover talking , With a Friend that he had brought . So she asked whom he sought . I am challeng'd by a Gallant , And resolve to show my Talon , Who he is I cannot say . But resolve to show him play . ( Lady ) It was I that did invite you , You shall wed me , or I'll fight you , Underneath these spreading Trees , Therefore choose you which you please . You shall find I do not vapour , For I have a trusty Rapier , So now take your Choice said she , Either fight or marry me . Said he , Madam , pray what mean you ? In my Life I ne'er have seen you , Pray unmask , your Visage show , Then I'll tell you ay or no . ( Lady ) I will not my Face uncover , Till the Marriage-Rites are over . Therefore take you which you will , Wed me , Sir , or try your Skill . Step within this pleasant Bower , With your Friend one single Hour , Strive your Mind to reconcile , I will wander here the while . While the beauteous Lady waited , The young Bachelor debated , What was best for to be done , Said his Friend , the Hazard run . If my Judgement may be trusted , Wed her , Sir , you can't be worsted , If she's rich , you rise to Fame , If she's poor , you're the same . He consented to be Married , All three in a Coach were carried , Unto the Church without Delay , Where he weds the Lady gay . Those sweet little Cupids hover'd , Round her Eyes , her Face was cover'd with a Mask . He took her thus Just for better or for worse . With a courteous kind Behaviour , She presents his Friend a Favour . Then she did dismiss him strait , That he might no longer wait . PART IV. As the gilded Coach stood ready , The young Lawyer and the Lady . Rode together till they came , Unto a House of State and Fame . Which appeared like a Castle , Where you might behold a parcel Of young Cedars tall and strait Just before the Palace Gate . Hand-in-Hand they walk'd together , To a Hall , or Parlour rather , Which was beautiful and fair , All alone she left him there . Two long Hours there he waited Her return , at length he fretted , And began to grieve at last , For he had not broke his Fast . Still he sat like one amazed , Round a spacious Room he gazed , Which was richly beautify'd . But alas ! he'd lost his Bride . There was peeping , laughing , fleering . All within the Lawyer's Hearing , But his Bride he could not see , Wou'd I were at Home , said he . While his Heart was Melancholy , Said the Steward brisk and jolly . Show me Friend , how came you here ? You've some bad Design I fear . He reply'd , dear loving Master , You shall meet with no Disaster , Thro' my Means , in any Case . Madam brought me to this Place . Then the Steward did retlre , Saying , now I will inquire , Whither this is true or no ; Never was Lover hamper'd so . Now the Lady that had fill'd him With this Fear , full oft beheld him , From a window as she dressed , Pleased at the merry Jest . When she had herself attir'd , In rich Robes to be admir'd . Like a moving Angel bright She appear'd in his Sighed . ( Lady ) Sir my Servants have related , How some Hours you have waited In my Parlour , tell we who In my House you ever knew . Madam , if I have offended , It is more than I intended ; A young Lady brought me here , That is true , said she , my Dear . I will be no longer cruel To my Joy and only Jewel ; Thou art mine , and I am thine , Hand and Heart I will resign . Once I was a wounded Lover But now all those Fears are cleanly over , By receiving what I gave , Thou art Lord of all I have . Beauty , Honour , Love and Treasure , A rich Golden Stream of Pleasure , With his Love he now enjoys Thanks to Cupid's kind Decoys . Now he's cloath'd in rich Attire , Not inferior to a Squire , Beauty , Honour , Riches store . What can a Man desire more ? Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 