The Courageous Gallant ; OR , CUPID Degraded . True Lovers grief may find Relief , Good Wine will cure the cause ; Then Fill the Glass , and let it pass , A Fig for CUPIDS Laws . To the Tune of , Four-Pence-Half-Penny-Farthing . This may be Printed , R. P. AWay with Cupids idle Darts what does he mean I wonder , He makes a stir with breaking hearts , such grief I'le ne'r lie under : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be Jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind , and willing . Some doting fools there is I know , will cringe and bow to Beauty And stand in fear of Cupids Bow , as counting it their Duty : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . Let me enjoy the charming Bowl of Liquour when in Season , It quickens e'ry Noble Soul , and Ripens all our Reason ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . Now fill the Glasses to the brim , for this will paint our Faces , And drink a full Carouse to him that slights all found embraces : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . Fair Phillis once her Love did show to me , but once I lost her , I scorn'd the Tyrannizing Bow of Cupid that Impostor : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . Since Cupid uses subtle Charms , I scornfully beheld him , I'le hug the Bottle in my arms now may the WORSER ---- Geld him ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . Now drink about and never spare , resolving to be merry , No Phillis in the World more fair then Glasses of Canary : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . Now he's and Ass that seems to dote , and waits a Woman's Leisure , I'de have him learn to change his note with us enjoy true pleasure ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . We'l lay our hearts a soak in Sack , it is a cure for Sadness , This Liquour never let us lack , since too much Love is Madness ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . I know there's few but love to sport , of all degrees I vow man , From jovial Gallants at the Court , to Country Ralph the Plowman : For he'l be jolly , with Kate and Molly , who take delight in billing , Grand fools they are who count her fair , which is not kind and willing . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . The Courageous Gallant ; OR , CUPID Degraded . True Lovers grief may find Relief , Good Wine will cure the cause ; Then Fill the Glass , and let it pass , A Fig for CUPIDS Laws . To the Tune of , Four-Pence-Half-Penny-Farthing . This may be Printed , R. P. AWay with Cupids idle Darts what does he mean I wonder , He makes a stir with breaking hearts , such grief I'le ne'r lie under : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be Jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind , and willing . Some doting fools there is I know , will cringe and bow to Beauty And stand in fear of Cupids Bow , as counting it their Duty : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . Let me enjoy the charming Bowl of Liquour when in Season , It quickens e'ry Noble Soul , and Ripens all our Reason ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . Now fill the Glasses to the brim , for this will paint our Faces , And drink a full Carouse to him that slights all found embraces : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . Fair Phillis once her Love did show to me , but once I lost her , I scorn'd the Tyrannizing Bow of Cupid that Impostor : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . Since Cupid uses subtle Charms , I scornfully beheld him , I'le hug the Bottle in my arms now may the WORSER ---- Geld him ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , with me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . Now drink about and never spare , resolving to be merry , No Phillis in the World more fair then Glasses of Canary : Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . Now he's and Ass that seems to dote , and waits a Woman's Leisure , I'de have him learn to change his note with us enjoy true pleasure ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair , which is not kind and willing . We'l lay our hearts a soak in Sack , it is a cure for Sadness , This Liquour never let us lack , since too much Love is Madness ; Found Love is a folly , Boys we'l be jolly , to me it shan't be Killing , Grand fools they are that counts her fair which is not kind and willing . I know there's few but love to sport , of all degrees I vow man , From jovial Gallants at the Court , to Country Ralph the Plowman : For he'l be jolly , with Kate and Molly , who take delight in billing , Grand fools they are who count her fair , which is not kind and willing . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . 