The Prodigals Resolution OR , My Father was Born before me . To a Pleasant Mew Tune . I Am a lusty lively Lad , now come to one and twenty , My Father left me all he had , both Gold and Silver plenty ; Now he's in Grave , I will be brave , the Ladies shall adore me , I'le court and kiss , what hurt's in this , My Dad did so before me . My Father was a thirsty Sir , till Soul and body sundered , Some say he was a Usurer , for thirty in the hundred ; He scrapped and scratched , She pinched and patch'd that in her belly boar me ; But i'le let fly , a good cause why , My Father was born before me . My Daddy had his Duty done , in getting so much treasure , I'le be as dutiful a Son , for spending it in pleasure : Five pounds a quart , shall cheer my heart , such Necture will restore me , When Ladies call , I'le have at all , My Father was born before me . My Grandam liv'd at Washington , my Grandsir delv'd in Ditches , The Son of Old John Thrashington , whose lantern leathern Breeches : Cry'd , whither go you , whither go you , though men do now adore me , They ne'r did see my Pedigree , Nor who was born before me . MY grandsir striv'd , & wiv'd , & thriv'd , till he did Riches gather , And when he had much wealth atchiev'd , Oh then he god my Father : Of happy memmory cry I , that e're his Mother boar him , I had not been worth one penny , Had I been born before him . To Free-school , Cambridge , and Grays-Inn , my Grey-coat Grandsir put him , Till to forget ( he did begin ) the Leathern Breech that god him : One dealt in Straw , 'tother in Law , the one did Ditch and Delve it , My Father store of Satin wore , My Grandsir Beggars Velvet . So get I wealth , what care I if my Grandsir were a Sawyer , My Father prov'd to be a chief subtle and Learned Lawyer , By Cooks Reports , and tricks in Court , he did with Treasure store me , That I may say , Heavens bless the day , My Father was born before me . Some say , of late , a Merchant that had got store of Riches , In's Drininkn-room hung up his Hat , his staff , and Leathern Breeches ; His stockings garter'd up with straws , e're Providence did store him , His Son was Sheriff of London , 'cause His Father was born before him . So many blades that Rant in silk , and put on Scarlet clothing , At first did spring from Buttermilk , their Ancestors worth nothing : Old Adam , and our Grandam Eve , by digging and by spinning , Did to all Kings and Princes give Their Radical beginning . My Father to get me estate , though selfish yet was slavish , I'le spend it at another rate , and be as lewdly lavish : From Madmen , Fools , and knaves he did litigiously receive it , If so he did , Justice forbid , But I to such should leave it . At Play-houses , and Tennis-Court , I'le prove a noble Fellow , I'le Court my Doxies to the sport , of O! brave Punchinello : I'le Dice and Drab , and Drink and Stab , no Hector shall outroar me , If Teachers tell we tales of Hell , My Father is gone before me . Our aged Counsellors would have us live by Rule and Reason , 'Cause they are marching to the Grave , and pleasures out of season : I'le learn to Dance the Mode of France , that Ladies may adore me , My thrifty Dad no pleasure had , Though he was born before me . I'le to the Court where Venus sport , does Revel it in plenty , I'le deal with all , both great and small , from twelve to five and twenty : In Play-houses i'le spend my days , for they'r hung round with Plackets , Ladies make room , behold I come , Have at your KNOCKING Jackets . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Prodigals Resolution OR , My Father was Born before me . To a Pleasant Mew Tune . I Am a lusty lively Lad , now come to one and twenty , My Father left me all he had , both Gold and Silver plenty ; Now he's in Grave , I will be brave , the Ladies shall adore me , I'le court and kiss , what hurt's in this , My Dad did so before me . My Father was a thirsty Sir , till Soul and body sundered , Some say he was a Usurer , for thirty in the hundred ; He scrapped and scratched , She pinched and patch'd that in her belly boar me ; But i'le let fly , a good cause why , My Father was born before me . My Daddy had his Duty done , in getting so much treasure , I'le be as dutiful a Son , for spending it in pleasure : Five pounds a quart , shall cheer my heart , such Necture will restore me , When Ladies call , I'le have at all , My Father was born before me . My Grandam liv'd at Washington , my Grandsir delv'd in Ditches , The Son of Old John Thrashington , whose lantern leathern Breeches : Cry'd , whither go you , whither go you , though men do now adore me , They ne'r did see my Pedigree , Nor who was born before me . MY grandsir striv'd , & wiv'd , & thriv'd , till he did Riches gather , And when he had much wealth atchiev'd , Oh then he god my Father : Of happy memmory cry I , that e're his Mother boar him , I had not been worth one penny , Had I been born before him . To Free-school , Cambridge , and Grays-Inn , my Grey-coat Grandsir put him , Till to forget ( he did begin ) the Leathern Breech that god him : One dealt in Straw , 'tother in Law , the one did Ditch and Delve it , My Father store of Satin wore , My Grandsir Beggars Velvet . So get I wealth , what care I if my Grandsir were a Sawyer , My Father prov'd to be a chief subtle and Learned Lawyer , By Cooks Reports , and tricks in Court , he did with Treasure store me , That I may say , Heavens bless the day , My Father was born before me . Some say , of late , a Merchant that had got store of Riches , In's Drininkn-room hung up his Hat , his staff , and Leathern Breeches ; His stockings garter'd up with straws , e're Providence did store him , His Son was Sheriff of London , 'cause His Father was born before him . So many blades that Rant in silk , and put on Scarlet clothing , At first did spring from Buttermilk , their Ancestors worth nothing : Old Adam , and our Grandam Eve , by digging and by spinning , Did to all Kings and Princes give Their Radical beginning . My Father to get me estate , though selfish yet was slavish , I'le spend it at another rate , and be as lewdly lavish : From Madmen , Fools , and knaves he did litigiously receive it , If so he did , Justice forbid , But I to such should leave it . At Play-houses , and Tennis-Court , I'le prove a noble Fellow , I'le Court my Doxies to the sport , of O! brave Punchinello : I'le Dice and Drab , and Drink and Stab , no Hector shall outroar me , If Teachers tell we tales of Hell , My Father is gone before me . Our aged Counsellors would have us live by Rule and Reason , 'Cause they are marching to the Grave , and pleasures out of season : I'le learn to Dance the Mode of France , that Ladies may adore me , My thrifty Dad no pleasure had , Though he was born before me . I'le to the Court where Venus sport , does Revel it in plenty , I'le deal with all , both great and small , from twelve to five and twenty : In Play-houses i'le spend my days , for they'r hung round with Plackets , Ladies make room , behold I come , Have at your KNOCKING Jackets . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 