The Downright Country-Man ; OR , The Faithful Dairy-Maid . But mind how Country Lads do boast , while Londoners are blam'd , And Country Lasses praised most , while ours are Wags proclaim'd . The Tune is , Heigh Boys up go we : Or , Busy Fame . I Am a downright Countryman , both faithful I and true , I'le live and die so if I can , this I declare to you : I study as I am at Blow , to shun all false deceit , And you may plain discover now , I am not London Cheat . Your London Cheats doe go most fine , like Lords in their attire , To swill their guts with Spanish Wine , it is their hearts desire : But it is very common , they do with the Vintners meet , They'l get o' that score then run away , just like a London Cheat . They oft pretend to be in Love , and ready for to die , Yea , vow to be just like the Dove , but know no Constancy : Like Villains they , the wag do play , with every Lass they meet . They plump them up then run away , this is a London Cheat . There is not one in the Twenty but he wears his Sword by his side , But walks with many and empty Gut , and ne'r will leave his Pride : But when his brain is full of Wine he'l stagger in the street , And then picks up a Concubine , to pox the London Cheat . Then he for half a Crown will have , that which may make him rue , A painted Whore both fiine and brave , perhaps the French-man too : Thus he with his unwholesome flesh , will be most brisk and sweet , But see him once out of his dress , he's like a London Cheat . BUt London City oft affords , Females as bad as Men , Who though they Hector with their Swords there is not one in ten , But has some pretty little Miss , to serve him at his need , And every minute lends a Kiss , this is a Whore indeed . They'l vow for ever to be true , to them they do affect , When Honesty is bid adieu , what can you then expect ? No faith nor troth is minded , when fools take so little heed , For Whores do often clap their Men , Oh these are Whores indeed . Let honest men take so much care , that do inhabit London , Of such false Girls to have a care , for fear they may be undone : How many hundreds may be spoyl'd , if they do not take heed , They who are so by Girls beguil'd , do meet with Whores indeed . Why then give me the Country Lass ; who honest is and true , And yet may kiss upon the Grass , but nothing farther doe : She scorneth that her deed , should any mischief breed , She takes delight in what is right , and honest is indeed . See by the colours of their Cheeks , they well and wholesome are , While London Girls look green as Leeks , The Country Girls look fair : Then old and young I pray beware , in Marrying take good heed , lest you are brought into a snare by cursed Jades indeed . See how the Rose and Lily fair , upon their Cheeks do grow , Mind how their breath perfume the air , wherever they do go : And what they touch imediately , fresh Odours on them breed , They patterns are of constancy , rare Country Girls indeed . Mind but the Girl that Milks the Cow , how sweetly she does sing , She never knits and angry Brow , but welcomes in the Spring , And then among the Butter flowers , she trips along the Mead , To pass away the tedious hours , she's fair and Chaste indeed . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . The Downright Country-Man ; OR , The Faithful Dairy-Maid . But mind how Country Lads do boast , while Londoners are blam'd , And Country Lasses praised most , while ours are Wags proclaim'd . The Tune is , Heigh Boys up go we : Or , Busy Fame . I Am a downright Countryman , both faithful I and true , I'le live and die so if I can , this I declare to you : I study as I am at Blow , to shun all false deceit , And you may plain discover now , I am not London Cheat . Your London Cheats doe go most fine , like Lords in their attire , To swill their guts with Spanish Wine , it is their hearts desire : But it is very common , they do with the Vintners meet , They'l get o' that score then run away , just like a London Cheat . They oft pretend to be in Love , and ready for to die , Yea , vow to be just like the Dove , but know no Constancy : Like Villains they , the wag do play , with every Lass they meet . They plump them up then run away , this is a London Cheat . There is not one in the Twenty but he wears his Sword by his side , But walks with many and empty Gut , and ne'r will leave his Pride : But when his brain is full of Wine he'l stagger in the street , And then picks up a Concubine , to pox the London Cheat . Then he for half a Crown will have , that which may make him rue , A painted Whore both fiine and brave , perhaps the French-man too : Thus he with his unwholesome flesh , will be most brisk and sweet , But see him once out of his dress , he's like a London Cheat . BUt London City oft affords , Females as bad as Men , Who though they Hector with their Swords there is not one in ten , But has some pretty little Miss , to serve him at his need , And every minute lends a Kiss , this is a Whore indeed . They'l vow for ever to be true , to them they do affect , When Honesty is bid adieu , what can you then expect ? No faith nor troth is minded , when fools take so little heed , For Whores do often clap their Men , Oh these are Whores indeed . Let honest men take so much care , that do inhabit London , Of such false Girls to have a care , for fear they may be undone : How many hundreds may be spoyl'd , if they do not take heed , They who are so by Girls beguil'd , do meet with Whores indeed . Why then give me the Country Lass ; who honest is and true , And yet may kiss upon the Grass , but nothing farther doe : She scorneth that her deed , should any mischief breed , She takes delight in what is right , and honest is indeed . See by the colours of their Cheeks , they well and wholesome are , While London Girls look green as Leeks , The Country Girls look fair : Then old and young I pray beware , in Marrying take good heed , lest you are brought into a snare by cursed Jades indeed . See how the Rose and Lily fair , upon their Cheeks do grow , Mind how their breath perfume the air , wherever they do go : And what they touch imediately , fresh Odours on them breed , They patterns are of constancy , rare Country Girls indeed . Mind but the Girl that Milks the Cow , how sweetly she does sing , She never knits and angry Brow , but welcomes in the Spring , And then among the Butter flowers , she trips along the Mead , To pass away the tedious hours , she's fair and Chaste indeed . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . 