The Contented PILGRIM : Or , The Pilgrim's troublesome Journey to his long home . He waits with patience and is well content , And desires all Christian people to repent , For the blessed soul that intends to Heaven to go , Must work with patience whither he will or no . Tune is , Let patience work for me . This may be printed , R.L.S. I Am a poor Pilgrim in this life , And tossed with misery ; There's nothing here but care & strife with the poorer sort we see . Let who will strive for to be great , it's all but Vanity , To save our souls let's strive for that , and let Patience work for me . In sickness and in poverty , patience is the best ; Let's keep the Lords Commandments then our souls they will be blessed . And forgo all wicked sinfulness , which must us'd we see , We must not think and evil thought , and let patience etc Let's not despair in our good God , what misery we do abide , But with patience take his blessed Rod , then God will be our guide ; To bring us on in our Pilgrimage , our blessed Saviour he Did die for us to save our souls , and let patience etc The glory of this sinful world comes to nothing at the last , We are uncertain of our life ; all is Vanity that is past ; Who wou'd be proud of this same world , all is nothing we do see , When in the Grave that we are hurl'd , and let patience work for me . What are we when the stroke of death calls for our life away , Its nothing but a puff of breath that makes us here to stay ; Therefore we need to have a care and do not wrong you see , But keep Gods laws and love him dear and let patience etc When he does ring his alarm-bell , and it soundeth in our ears , Happy's that soul that lived well , then well it shall appear Before that blessed Judge of Heaven , when Sentence there will be , Come blessed soul , thou art forgiven , thou art welcome unto me . Then happy is that blessed soul that lives in a penitent way ; And patient be in all our wants in this life I do say ; When death he comes , he takes no bribe , away from hence go we , The blessed God be on our side , and let patience work for me . If we be cold or hungry , and maintenance it be scarce , The Lord he will our wants supply , and will help us at the last ; We need not fear of any want , our gracious God is free To those that love him to be sure , and let etc Now let us keep a watchful eye , and prepare our souls for death , Before that we do come to die , that death does stop our breath : That soul that die that's unprepar'd , is in great misery ; God bless us all from the Devils snare and let patience etc Lord give us grace both rich & poor that we may be content , For Patience is a goodly store , if we our sins repent ; Gods servants cannot want be sure , though poor and bore some be , Our blessed Lord is sufficient store , and let patience work for me . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in Py-corner . Where any English or Irish Chapman may be furnished with all sorts of new Books & Ballads . The Contented PILGRIM : Or , The Pilgrim's troublesome Journey to his long home . He waits with patience and is well content , And desires all Christian people to repent , For the blessed soul that intends to Heaven to go , Must work with patience whither he will or no . Tune is , Let patience work for me . This may be printed , R.L.S. I Am a poor Pilgrim in this life , And tossed with misery ; There's nothing here but care & strife with the poorer sort we see . Let who will strive for to be great , it's all but Vanity , To save our souls let's strive for that , and let Patience work for me . In sickness and in poverty , patience is the best ; Let's keep the Lords Commandments then our souls they will be blessed . And forgo all wicked sinfulness , which must us'd we see , We must not think and evil thought , and let patience etc Let's not despair in our good God , what misery we do abide , But with patience take his blessed Rod , then God will be our guide ; To bring us on in our Pilgrimage , our blessed Saviour he Did die for us to save our souls , and let patience etc The glory of this sinful world comes to nothing at the last , We are uncertain of our life ; all is Vanity that is past ; Who wou'd be proud of this same world , all is nothing we do see , When in the Grave that we are hurl'd , and let patience work for me . What are we when the stroke of death calls for our life away , Its nothing but a puff of breath that makes us here to stay ; Therefore we need to have a care and do not wrong you see , But keep Gods laws and love him dear and let patience etc When he does ring his alarm-bell , and it soundeth in our ears , Happy's that soul that lived well , then well it shall appear Before that blessed Judge of Heaven , when Sentence there will be , Come blessed soul , thou art forgiven , thou art welcome unto me . Then happy is that blessed soul that lives in a penitent way ; And patient be in all our wants in this life I do say ; When death he comes , he takes no bribe , away from hence go we , The blessed God be on our side , and let patience work for me . If we be cold or hungry , and maintenance it be scarce , The Lord he will our wants supply , and will help us at the last ; We need not fear of any want , our gracious God is free To those that love him to be sure , and let etc Now let us keep a watchful eye , and prepare our souls for death , Before that we do come to die , that death does stop our breath : That soul that die that's unprepar'd , is in great misery ; God bless us all from the Devils snare and let patience etc Lord give us grace both rich & poor that we may be content , For Patience is a goodly store , if we our sins repent ; Gods servants cannot want be sure , though poor and bore some be , Our blessed Lord is sufficient store , and let patience work for me . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in Py-corner . Where any English or Irish Chapman may be furnished with all sorts of new Books & Ballads . 