The Mourning LADY : OR , The Loyal Lover's Lamentation FOR THE Loss of her Noble COMMANDER , WHO Received his Death's Wound at the Decent to France . To the Tune of , The Guinney wins her , etc I Am a mournful Lady , Sharp Sorrows I lie under , My very Heart is ready , With Grief to burst in sunder ; Farewell to all the joys of Love , There is nothing I ador'd above , My brave Commander , who Has bid the World adieu , And I am left behind , With a perplexed mind , And can no Comfort find , Since he , is slave who was the Life of me . He often fought in Flanders , Likewise in foreign Nations , One of the chief Commanders ; His Friends and near Relations , Have cause to Mourn as well as I , That so brave a General should Die , A true and trusty Soul , This Loss we must Condole , For he was one of those , That never fear'd his Foes , But did his Life expose , Till he , has met his fatal Destiny . In famous France he landed , Through Smoke and Flame he enter'd , For since he was command , His Life he freely ventur'd ; And there they spilled his dearest Blood , Leaving me , alas to shed a Flood Of sad lamenting Tears , For nothing else appears , But Sorrow , Grief , and Woe , Mine Eyelids overflow , Ay , Whither shall I go To find , some Comfort for a grieved Mind ? I Dream of bloody Banners , Each Night as I am lying ; I waking cry , that Honours Are fading Shadows flying ; Before he felt that fatal Wound , My dear Valiant Talmarsh was renow'd , And Sword on wings of Fame , Thousands ador'd his Name , Yet by one single Ball , One Minute blasted all , And I lament his fallen , For he , is slave who was the Life of me . In Love I did adore him , Beyond all worldly Treasure ; Since Art could not restore him , My Grief is out of Measure ; His Death may well lamented be , One that serv'd his Prince by Land and Sea , Right Loyal , True and Just , And Faithful to his Trust ; It was his chief Delight The Nations Wrongs to Right ; And now his last good Night , I find , will be a Sorrow to my mind . He whom I did admire , Went hence by bloody Slaughter , And fain would I expire , That I might follow after , For why should I alive remain , Since my dearest loyal Love is slave ? With Grief I am oppressed , O , that I was at rest With him that's gone before , I ne'er shall see him more , His Death does grieve me soar , For he , is slave who was the Life of me . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The Mourning LADY : OR , The Loyal Lover's Lamentation FOR THE Loss of her Noble COMMANDER , WHO Received his Death's Wound at the Decent to France . To the Tune of , The Guinney wins her , etc I Am a mournful Lady , Sharp Sorrows I lie under , My very Heart is ready , With Grief to burst in sunder ; Farewell to all the joys of Love , There is nothing I ador'd above , My brave Commander , who Has bid the World adieu , And I am left behind , With a perplexed mind , And can no Comfort find , Since he , is slave who was the Life of me . He often fought in Flanders , Likewise in foreign Nations , One of the chief Commanders ; His Friends and near Relations , Have cause to Mourn as well as I , That so brave a General should Die , A true and trusty Soul , This Loss we must Condole , For he was one of those , That never fear'd his Foes , But did his Life expose , Till he , has met his fatal Destiny . In famous France he landed , Through Smoke and Flame he enter'd , For since he was command , His Life he freely ventur'd ; And there they spilled his dearest Blood , Leaving me , alas to shed a Flood Of sad lamenting Tears , For nothing else appears , But Sorrow , Grief , and Woe , Mine Eyelids overflow , Ay , Whither shall I go To find , some Comfort for a grieved Mind ? I Dream of bloody Banners , Each Night as I am lying ; I waking cry , that Honours Are fading Shadows flying ; Before he felt that fatal Wound , My dear Valiant Talmarsh was renow'd , And Sword on wings of Fame , Thousands ador'd his Name , Yet by one single Ball , One Minute blasted all , And I lament his fallen , For he , is slave who was the Life of me . In Love I did adore him , Beyond all worldly Treasure ; Since Art could not restore him , My Grief is out of Measure ; His Death may well lamented be , One that serv'd his Prince by Land and Sea , Right Loyal , True and Just , And Faithful to his Trust ; It was his chief Delight The Nations Wrongs to Right ; And now his last good Night , I find , will be a Sorrow to my mind . He whom I did admire , Went hence by bloody Slaughter , And fain would I expire , That I might follow after , For why should I alive remain , Since my dearest loyal Love is slave ? With Grief I am oppressed , O , that I was at rest With him that's gone before , I ne'er shall see him more , His Death does grieve me soar , For he , is slave who was the Life of me . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 