THE Country Gentleman ; Or , the happy Life . To and excellent Tune , Or , Heigh boys up go we . With Allowance . I Am a man of Wealth and Land , and Gold I have good store , A good Estate I now command , what can one wish for more ? I valve not and hundred pound , to Tenants i'le be kind , I'le have my Hawk , and have my Hound and such delights will mind . To London I will not repair , here sweeter pleasures be , I live in a more healthy Air , and fairer Beauty's see : I love the noise of Hey-ge-ho , the whistling at the Plough , The Baaing of the tender Yoe , and Lowing of the Cow . The morning Lark which shepherd's love here sings by break of day ; And Nightingale in yonder Grove where Flowers perfume our way : Fair Sycamores to please the eye , and hinder too much heat , And Strawberries and Violets lie all round about our feet . BEtimes we hear the huntsman's horn which loudly echos round , And in a lovely Rosy morn how sweetly does it found ! The drowsy sluggard strait gives ear , his golden Dreams are fled ; ( Except the Sick ) who e're did hear the Horn and lie a bed ? Intrigues of State here are not known , nor Beauty's nice and coy , Each man well pleas'd with what's his own his pleasures does enjoy : At night within his Wives soft Arms the happy Swain does rest , And thus secure , and void of harms with Peace is always blessed . I hate the many Cheats and Knaves that lurk in London Town , whose restless heads like tumbling waves are rolling up and down : Ambitious Fops find little ease , let us Ambition shun , And mark how all our Flowers and trees are guilded by the Sun. The meanest Shepherd does enjoy some Milkmaid brisk and fair , And gets first night a thumping Boy , a lusty jolly Heir . Let painted Jilts avoid this place , for all our Nymphs so gay With only Dews do wash their face , and look divine as day . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . THE Country Gentleman ; Or , the happy Life . To and excellent Tune , Or , Heigh boys up go we . With Allowance . I Am a man of Wealth and Land , and Gold I have good store , A good Estate I now command , what can one wish for more ? I valve not and hundred pound , to Tenants i'le be kind , I'le have my Hawk , and have my Hound and such delights will mind . To London I will not repair , here sweeter pleasures be , I live in a more healthy Air , and fairer Beauty's see : I love the noise of Hey-ge-ho , the whistling at the Plough , The Baaing of the tender Yoe , and Lowing of the Cow . The morning Lark which shepherd's love here sings by break of day ; And Nightingale in yonder Grove where Flowers perfume our way : Fair Sycamores to please the eye , and hinder too much heat , And Strawberries and Violets lie all round about our feet . BEtimes we hear the huntsman's horn which loudly echos round , And in a lovely Rosy morn how sweetly does it found ! The drowsy sluggard strait gives ear , his golden Dreams are fled ; ( Except the Sick ) who e're did hear the Horn and lie a bed ? Intrigues of State here are not known , nor Beauty's nice and coy , Each man well pleas'd with what's his own his pleasures does enjoy : At night within his Wives soft Arms the happy Swain does rest , And thus secure , and void of harms with Peace is always blessed . I hate the many Cheats and Knaves that lurk in London Town , whose restless heads like tumbling waves are rolling up and down : Ambitious Fops find little ease , let us Ambition shun , And mark how all our Flowers and trees are guilded by the Sun. The meanest Shepherd does enjoy some Milkmaid brisk and fair , And gets first night a thumping Boy , a lusty jolly Heir . Let painted Jilts avoid this place , for all our Nymphs so gay With only Dews do wash their face , and look divine as day . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 