And Askew , Entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a Woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought but fain would find , what herb in my Garden were best to be . A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown the seed of Christs true verity . My Spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with myself being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest , Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in my blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for venial sins he bid me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods Spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry , to be pray'd for while the World does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your Father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his Merits I did deprave . I might liken myself with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb Man in Luke the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore , Oh Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot , or fierce sword . Strengehen me good Lord in thy truth to stand , for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour and kill . O Lord forgive me my offence . for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful Body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would wish all creatures and faithful friends , for to keep from this Gardeners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce fire brands . I dare not presume for him to pay , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent seed abroad he has sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust hereafter that by Gods holy Grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the workmaster of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it of right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou can'st raise it again : In the same likeness as thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Onley , T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . And Askew , Entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind . I Am a Woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me , Long have I sought but fain would find , what herb in my Garden were best to be . A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my body , where I should have sown the seed of Christs true verity . My Spirit within me is vexed soar , my spirit striveth against the same , My sorrows do increase more and more , my conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with myself being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest , Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired him for the love of the Lord , true seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in my blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for venial sins he bid me go : To give my money to stones and stocks , which was stark lies and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christs passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling deeds , still Gods Spirit out of my garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry , to be pray'd for while the World does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your Father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devils works , thinking sufficient my soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his Merits I did deprave . I might liken myself with a woeful heart , unto the Dumb Man in Luke the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus good Lord so quickly I spent , alas I shall die the sooner therefore , Oh Lord I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store . For such sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word Which I will not deny while I have breath , for prison , fire , faggot , or fierce sword . Strengehen me good Lord in thy truth to stand , for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour and kill . O Lord forgive me my offence . for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful Body from hence , then shall I vile creature offend thee no more . I would wish all creatures and faithful friends , for to keep from this Gardeners hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel torments of fierce fire brands . I dare not presume for him to pay , because the truth of him it was well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent seed abroad he has sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust hereafter that by Gods holy Grace , that all faithful men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my spirit , that art the workmaster of the same , It is thine Lord , therefore take it of right , my carcase on earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou can'st raise it again : In the same likeness as thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . FINIS . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Onley , T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 