The Passionate Damsel ; OR , THE True Miss of a MAN . In which she sets forth a true Sense of her Sorrow . O come away , young Men I pray , and grant me my Request ; Without your aid I am afraid I never shall have rest . To the Tune of , The Virtue of the Pudding . This may be Printed , R.P. I Am a young Maid of Beauty bright , that have a desire indeed to be Wed , That I might take part of such pleasant delight that e'ry young Woman enjoys in the Bed With a Husband . This does my heart with sorrow seize to see young Dolly nay , Bridget and Joan , [ H ] owe they have their Sweethearts to walk where they please while I in much sorrow make pitiful moan For a Husband . There's little pretty smirking John , he formerly told me I should be his Bride But he has forsook me , and taken young Nan , therefore in much sorrow my patience is try'd For a Husband . That he would do so , I ne'er did dream , when I us'd to feast him with Apples & Ale , And often with Cheese-Cakes , nay , Custards and Cream , And yet he hath left me to weep and bewail For a Husband . Take pity of me some Man I pray , for into despair I'm ready to fallen , If you have no Money the Parson to pay , I'll pawn my best Petticoat , Smock and all For a Husband . Once Johnny he set me on his Knee , and many sweet Kisses of him then I had , And he with Embraces so cudled me , that e'er since that time I have been almost mad For a Husband . Alas ! I cannot sleep in my Bed , but every night there I tumble and toss , And many strange Rumours does run in my head I freely declare that I am at a loss For a Husband . Now any young Man I would embrace , that willing is then my distemper to cure , I hope there is some that will pity my Case , for no Body knows what I daily endure For a Husband . My Cheeks were once clear , white and read , like the very Rose or the Lilies so fair ; But now you may see it is paler then Led , and I am almost at the point of Despair For a Husband . Since I have lost my true Love John , I wish I could have either Robin or Dick There's no one so much knows the miss of a Man , as I that in sorrow hath sigh'd myself sick For a Husband . Alas ! I see still day by day , a many young Women that now are with Child , And I that am many years older than they must still live a Maid which makes me grow wild For a Husband . O that I might have my Delight on me for a Living he then should rely , I'd labour all day , and I'd please him at night , there's none in the World should be kinder than I To a Husband . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Passionate Damsel ; OR , THE True Miss of a MAN . In which she sets forth a true Sense of her Sorrow . O come away , young Men I pray , and grant me my Request ; Without your aid I am afraid I never shall have rest . To the Tune of , The Virtue of the Pudding . This may be Printed , R.P. I Am a young Maid of Beauty bright , that have a desire indeed to be Wed , That I might take part of such pleasant delight that e'ry young Woman enjoys in the Bed With a Husband . This does my heart with sorrow seize to see young Dolly nay , Bridget and Joan , [ H ] owe they have their Sweethearts to walk where they please while I in much sorrow make pitiful moan For a Husband . There's little pretty smirking John , he formerly told me I should be his Bride But he has forsook me , and taken young Nan , therefore in much sorrow my patience is try'd For a Husband . That he would do so , I ne'er did dream , when I us'd to feast him with Apples & Ale , And often with Cheese-Cakes , nay , Custards and Cream , And yet he hath left me to weep and bewail For a Husband . Take pity of me some Man I pray , for into despair I'm ready to fallen , If you have no Money the Parson to pay , I'll pawn my best Petticoat , Smock and all For a Husband . Once Johnny he set me on his Knee , and many sweet Kisses of him then I had , And he with Embraces so cudled me , that e'er since that time I have been almost mad For a Husband . Alas ! I cannot sleep in my Bed , but every night there I tumble and toss , And many strange Rumours does run in my head I freely declare that I am at a loss For a Husband . Now any young Man I would embrace , that willing is then my distemper to cure , I hope there is some that will pity my Case , for no Body knows what I daily endure For a Husband . My Cheeks were once clear , white and read , like the very Rose or the Lilies so fair ; But now you may see it is paler then Led , and I am almost at the point of Despair For a Husband . Since I have lost my true Love John , I wish I could have either Robin or Dick There's no one so much knows the miss of a Man , as I that in sorrow hath sigh'd myself sick For a Husband . Alas ! I see still day by day , a many young Women that now are with Child , And I that am many years older than they must still live a Maid which makes me grow wild For a Husband . O that I might have my Delight on me for a Living he then should rely , I'd labour all day , and I'd please him at night , there's none in the World should be kinder than I To a Husband . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 