A Rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris . who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery ; but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh man in desperation . IT was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me dear Mother , her daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this Maiden call , And put her into prison , to fear her there withal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure , She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd not fiery flame , She hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire for to burn , Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience ( quoth she ) to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her dying day , They stripped this silly Damsel , out of her rich array , Her chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully , did all the world forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant she willing was to die , But seeing many Ladies , assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her Mother weeping , her daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a book covered with Gold : Throw hence , quoth she , that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed Mother . why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocent , Tormentor do thine Office , on me when thou think'st best But God my Heavenly Father , will bring my soul to rest . But Oh my aged Father , wherever thou dost lie , Thou know'st not thy poor Daughter , is ready for to die ; But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope to dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feel such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace Gods true Religion , for which I lose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the Man of Death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath To Christ her only Saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good people , and thus she made and end . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Onley , T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . A Rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris . who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery ; but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh man in desperation . IT was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me dear Mother , her daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this Maiden call , And put her into prison , to fear her there withal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure , She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd not fiery flame , She hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire for to burn , Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience ( quoth she ) to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her dying day , They stripped this silly Damsel , out of her rich array , Her chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully , did all the world forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant she willing was to die , But seeing many Ladies , assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her Mother weeping , her daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a book covered with Gold : Throw hence , quoth she , that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed Mother . why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocent , Tormentor do thine Office , on me when thou think'st best But God my Heavenly Father , will bring my soul to rest . But Oh my aged Father , wherever thou dost lie , Thou know'st not thy poor Daughter , is ready for to die ; But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope to dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feel such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace Gods true Religion , for which I lose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the Man of Death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath To Christ her only Saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good people , and thus she made and end . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Onley , T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 