The Ingenious Braggadocia ; Who thinks to Oblige by Boasting of his Large Possessions , yet was very Unwilling to loose much time in Wooing ; but being Married , was in a Weeks time acquainted with and aching Forehead . To the Tune of , Cook Laurel . I Have a Mare her Colour is White , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; To Ride on her Belly I take Delight , And I cannot come every day to Woo . With heigh my Nanny , with ho my Nanny , with heigh my Nanny , my Nanny , Nanny ; The more I do look , the more I love thee , thou art kinder then ever thou used to be . I have a Key but it wants a Lock , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; I have that will please wertenberg under thy Smock , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc I would not Wed when I was Young , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; But now I am Old I want a good thing , And I cannot come every day to Woo . With heigh my Nanny , etc I have a House , and I have a Yard , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; But by the right owner I'm from it debar'd , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , with ho my Nanny , with heigh my Nanny , my Nanny , Nanny ; The more I do look , the more I love thee , thou art kinder then ever thou used to be . I have a Pot that wants a Ladle , Sweet if thou love , etc Come furnish me then if that thou art able , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc We'l leave off these Cups and fill up our Glasses , Sweet if thou love me tell me now , We'l leave off old widows , and court young lasses And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc It is not a week since I took me a Bride , Sweet if thou love me , etc But I fear there's a Cuckold that lies by her side , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc Once I had Silver , and once I had Gold , Sweet if thou love , etc And once I had Land , but I could not it hold , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc And now I have spent and wasted my store , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; I have Horns on my head which I ne'r had before , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc And to be a Cuckold if it be my Lot , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; It is and old Trade that will ne'r be forgotten , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc In the City and Country some brothers I have , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; whose wives do maintain them both gallant & brave , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , with ho my Nanny , with heigh my Nanny , my Nanny , Nanny , The more I do look the more I love thee , thou art kinder then ever thou used to be . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . The Ingenious Braggadocia ; Who thinks to Oblige by Boasting of his Large Possessions , yet was very Unwilling to loose much time in Wooing ; but being Married , was in a Weeks time acquainted with and aching Forehead . To the Tune of , Cook Laurel . I Have a Mare her Colour is White , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; To Ride on her Belly I take Delight , And I cannot come every day to Woo . With heigh my Nanny , with ho my Nanny , with heigh my Nanny , my Nanny , Nanny ; The more I do look , the more I love thee , thou art kinder then ever thou used to be . I have a Key but it wants a Lock , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; I have that will please wertenberg under thy Smock , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc I would not Wed when I was Young , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; But now I am Old I want a good thing , And I cannot come every day to Woo . With heigh my Nanny , etc I have a House , and I have a Yard , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; But by the right owner I'm from it debar'd , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , with ho my Nanny , with heigh my Nanny , my Nanny , Nanny ; The more I do look , the more I love thee , thou art kinder then ever thou used to be . I have a Pot that wants a Ladle , Sweet if thou love , etc Come furnish me then if that thou art able , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc We'l leave off these Cups and fill up our Glasses , Sweet if thou love me tell me now , We'l leave off old widows , and court young lasses And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc It is not a week since I took me a Bride , Sweet if thou love me , etc But I fear there's a Cuckold that lies by her side , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc Once I had Silver , and once I had Gold , Sweet if thou love , etc And once I had Land , but I could not it hold , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc And now I have spent and wasted my store , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; I have Horns on my head which I ne'r had before , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc And to be a Cuckold if it be my Lot , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; It is and old Trade that will ne'r be forgotten , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , etc In the City and Country some brothers I have , Sweet if thou love me tell me now ; whose wives do maintain them both gallant & brave , And I cannot come every day to Woo : With heigh my Nanny , with ho my Nanny , with heigh my Nanny , my Nanny , Nanny , The more I do look the more I love thee , thou art kinder then ever thou used to be . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . 