The Trappan'd Taylor : OR , A Warning to all Tailors to beware how they Marry . Showing how a Beggar-wench being insinuated into a house of Bawdry , was suddenly transformed out of Rags into siiks , flaunting it each day with Gallants , ( yet passing for a Maid . ) A Taylor living hard by , fell deep in love with her person , and afterwards married her , which was no sooner done , but the old Bawd disrob'd her of the rich attire , and put on the Rags which she brought with her ; to the great discontent of our Monsieur Starveling . To the Tune of , How many Crowns and pounds have I spent , etc ILe sing a Song , and a dainty brave Song , it's neither of Seaman nor Sailor ; But to tell you the truth , it's a bonny brave Youth , he's a finikin Vapouring Taylor . It was in the prime of Cow-cumber time , when Tailors had very much leisure ; This Gallant so nimble did cast by his Thimble , to sport away time for his pleasure . A Begger-Wench chanced to London to come , a Girl that had very good Features ; With begging about , and old Bawd spy'd her out , for sure there is many such Creatures . This cunning old Craft with subtle intent , did find that the Lass she was willing ; She took the Wench in , and washed her clean , and put on her very good Linen . She pull'd off her rags , and gave her black bags and made her as fine as fine may be ; For she was so smug , she look'd like a Jug , and she was as brisk as a Lady . She gave her and art that she acted her part , as if she had been and old stander ; She liked the Trade far better she said , then abroad in the Country to wander . She taught her the Trade to pass for a Maid , after she had been twenty times used : And silly Fools they are cheated like gulls , being baffled and basely abused . Oft times in the door like a crafty young Whore , she stands for to tempt in her Cullies : And when they come in , she'l teach them to since , then dearly they pay for their follies . But while she did frisk , the Taylor so brisk , it was his chance for to spy her : She ravished his heart before she did part , in hope's for to gain his desire . For verily she pretended to be a Country Gentleman's Daughter : Came up the last Term new fashions to learn , but mark how she fited him after . He told her that he would marry with she , for he was a Man of regarding ; He gave her rich gifts to purchase his drifts , for he was in hope's of a bargain . By little and little she seemed to yield , being moved thereto by his carriage ; Pretending that she will likewise agree to join with him in lawful Marriage . BUt when the old Bawd found out their design , she swore she will have satisfaction : But the Taylor so sad had not enough paid , but she presently enter'd and Actium . She stripping the Bride , he standing beside , like one that did scorn to disown her : He ceas'd his brags , when he saw his wives rags , and wish'd that he had never known her . The rags the Whore knew for to be her own to take them again she had reason : And since she did catch a blade that could patch , he had patching work for a whole season . And thus she did snap the Taylor in a Trap to pay for his Wives apparel , That she had him lent , which made him repent , it was but in vain for to quarrel . And thus the poor Taylor was finely trappan'd , he curs'd , he swore , and he vapour'd ; That made him to swear , and to pull off his hair , like a Pigg in a Halter he caper'd . He skipped and he jumped , but sure he was mumpt , as well as ever was any : A Beggar-wench Bride to lie by his side , may please him as well as a Lady . And now we will leave him to kiss up his Wife , she has enough to cool his courage ; Let Tailors beware and have a great care , how they join with such beggars in marriage . Unless that my Song it be tedious and long , i'le end it with , heigh down derry ; We put it in rhime this Cowcumber time , that Tailors may laugh and be merry . FINIS . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Trappan'd Taylor : OR , A Warning to all Tailors to beware how they Marry . Showing how a Beggar-wench being insinuated into a house of Bawdry , was suddenly transformed out of Rags into siiks , flaunting it each day with Gallants , ( yet passing for a Maid . ) A Taylor living hard by , fell deep in love with her person , and afterwards married her , which was no sooner done , but the old Bawd disrob'd her of the rich attire , and put on the Rags which she brought with her ; to the great discontent of our Monsieur Starveling . To the Tune of , How many Crowns and pounds have I spent , etc ILe sing a Song , and a dainty brave Song , it's neither of Seaman nor Sailor ; But to tell you the truth , it's a bonny brave Youth , he's a finikin Vapouring Taylor . It was in the prime of Cow-cumber time , when Tailors had very much leisure ; This Gallant so nimble did cast by his Thimble , to sport away time for his pleasure . A Begger-Wench chanced to London to come , a Girl that had very good Features ; With begging about , and old Bawd spy'd her out , for sure there is many such Creatures . This cunning old Craft with subtle intent , did find that the Lass she was willing ; She took the Wench in , and washed her clean , and put on her very good Linen . She pull'd off her rags , and gave her black bags and made her as fine as fine may be ; For she was so smug , she look'd like a Jug , and she was as brisk as a Lady . She gave her and art that she acted her part , as if she had been and old stander ; She liked the Trade far better she said , then abroad in the Country to wander . She taught her the Trade to pass for a Maid , after she had been twenty times used : And silly Fools they are cheated like gulls , being baffled and basely abused . Oft times in the door like a crafty young Whore , she stands for to tempt in her Cullies : And when they come in , she'l teach them to since , then dearly they pay for their follies . But while she did frisk , the Taylor so brisk , it was his chance for to spy her : She ravished his heart before she did part , in hope's for to gain his desire . For verily she pretended to be a Country Gentleman's Daughter : Came up the last Term new fashions to learn , but mark how she fited him after . He told her that he would marry with she , for he was a Man of regarding ; He gave her rich gifts to purchase his drifts , for he was in hope's of a bargain . By little and little she seemed to yield , being moved thereto by his carriage ; Pretending that she will likewise agree to join with him in lawful Marriage . BUt when the old Bawd found out their design , she swore she will have satisfaction : But the Taylor so sad had not enough paid , but she presently enter'd and Actium . She stripping the Bride , he standing beside , like one that did scorn to disown her : He ceas'd his brags , when he saw his wives rags , and wish'd that he had never known her . The rags the Whore knew for to be her own to take them again she had reason : And since she did catch a blade that could patch , he had patching work for a whole season . And thus she did snap the Taylor in a Trap to pay for his Wives apparel , That she had him lent , which made him repent , it was but in vain for to quarrel . And thus the poor Taylor was finely trappan'd , he curs'd , he swore , and he vapour'd ; That made him to swear , and to pull off his hair , like a Pigg in a Halter he caper'd . He skipped and he jumped , but sure he was mumpt , as well as ever was any : A Beggar-wench Bride to lie by his side , may please him as well as a Lady . And now we will leave him to kiss up his Wife , she has enough to cool his courage ; Let Tailors beware and have a great care , how they join with such beggars in marriage . Unless that my Song it be tedious and long , i'le end it with , heigh down derry ; We put it in rhime this Cowcumber time , that Tailors may laugh and be merry . FINIS . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 