A NEW-YEARS GIFT FOR THE WHIGS : Or , A True Relation of Threescore Presbyters ( Foot and Horse ) that surprised Two of the Kings Guards in their beds , at and Inn seaven Miles from Edenborough , Cutting all the Flesh off their bones till they were Dead , and carried the pieces to their Respective Friends , and there burned them in Contempt of God and their King . Tune of , Then then to the Duke let's fill up the Glass . GReat Souls that are free from Faction , rejoice , and stand on y'r guard for y'r Country & King Observe the success of Papillion , Duboice , of Bethel and Cornish , and Tony's black Sting : Walcot and College , and Young Horned Dotage , see how some are hang'd , and the rest run away ; Let this be a warning , to Whigs rigid scorning , who choose to be Damn'd rather than to Obey . II Yet still with the Scotch they dare to Conspire , the Dutch are not idle the French to send o're ; The Scum of the Country from France do retire , to support the Old-Cause , come to breed on our Shore ; To join with the Dutch or the whigs of our Nation , must be the Design of those Presbyter Saints ; To th' ruin of our trade they have made and invasion pretence of Religion protects their false Cants . III . Whigs constant to nothing , but treason and change , o're-charging their Noddles with notions of State ; With Trimming reflections on loyal L'Estrange , more profligate Villains ne'r peeped thru' a Grate ; Let Oats be remember'd , ten thousand times perjur'd , and keep the Beast chained , until the next Term ; And then through a Casement , to th' whigs great amazement , and next Sessions after he'l Tyburn adorn . IV. The Scotch-Covenanters to rouse up our Knaves , hath given us a Signet , as they did before ; When the Bishops brains against the Coach-Naves they dash'd out , to show what a God they adore : By th' light of the Spirit , some sixty in number , surpriz'd in their beds two of the Kings Guards ; Alive leg and limb they cut 'um asunder , by Yea and Nay , Brother , they merit reward . V. with the flesh on the points of their swords they retir'd in Triumph , cry'd , This is the work of the Leard ; For this holy murder by th' Saints we were Hir'd , Geud faith the next time let 'um stand on their guard Had they been the King & the Duke , we had glory'd , and a Thanksgiving-day had been hum'd in our Kirk , For their blood we do thirst , but their name we abhor it for we worship no King , but the De'el and the Turk . VI . And thus they disperc'd with the blood of their prey , in hope's of a better next time they do meet ; This is the Religion our Saints hope's to sway , in murder and plunder thinks nothing more sweet . But God bless the King , the Duke and the Duchess , for the line let's Fight to maintain 'Gainst all that upon the Prerogative touches , conclude with this Health , let Charles ever Reign . FINIS . Printed for J. Deane Bookseller , in Cranborn-street , near Newport-house , in Leicester-fields . A NEW-YEARS GIFT FOR THE WHIGS : Or , A True Relation of Threescore Presbyters ( Foot and Horse ) that surprised Two of the Kings Guards in their beds , at and Inn seaven Miles from Edenborough , Cutting all the Flesh off their bones till they were Dead , and carried the pieces to their Respective Friends , and there burned them in Contempt of God and their King . Tune of , Then then to the Duke let's fill up the Glass . GReat Souls that are free from Faction , rejoice , and stand on y'r guard for y'r Country & King Observe the success of Papillion , Duboice , of Bethel and Cornish , and Tony's black Sting : Walcot and College , and Young Horned Dotage , see how some are hang'd , and the rest run away ; Let this be a warning , to Whigs rigid scorning , who choose to be Damn'd rather than to Obey . II Yet still with the Scotch they dare to Conspire , the Dutch are not idle the French to send o're ; The Scum of the Country from France do retire , to support the Old-Cause , come to breed on our Shore ; To join with the Dutch or the whigs of our Nation , must be the Design of those Presbyter Saints ; To th' ruin of our trade they have made and invasion pretence of Religion protects their false Cants . III . Whigs constant to nothing , but treason and change , o're-charging their Noddles with notions of State ; With Trimming reflections on loyal L'Estrange , more profligate Villains ne'r peeped thru' a Grate ; Let Oats be remember'd , ten thousand times perjur'd , and keep the Beast chained , until the next Term ; And then through a Casement , to th' whigs great amazement , and next Sessions after he'l Tyburn adorn . IV. The Scotch-Covenanters to rouse up our Knaves , hath given us a Signet , as they did before ; When the Bishops brains against the Coach-Naves they dash'd out , to show what a God they adore : By th' light of the Spirit , some sixty in number , surpriz'd in their beds two of the Kings Guards ; Alive leg and limb they cut 'um asunder , by Yea and Nay , Brother , they merit reward . V. with the flesh on the points of their swords they retir'd in Triumph , cry'd , This is the work of the Leard ; For this holy murder by th' Saints we were Hir'd , Geud faith the next time let 'um stand on their guard Had they been the King & the Duke , we had glory'd , and a Thanksgiving-day had been hum'd in our Kirk , For their blood we do thirst , but their name we abhor it for we worship no King , but the De'el and the Turk . VI . And thus they disperc'd with the blood of their prey , in hope's of a better next time they do meet ; This is the Religion our Saints hope's to sway , in murder and plunder thinks nothing more sweet . But God bless the King , the Duke and the Duchess , for the line let's Fight to maintain 'Gainst all that upon the Prerogative touches , conclude with this Health , let Charles ever Reign . FINIS . Printed for J. Deane Bookseller , in Cranborn-street , near Newport-house , in Leicester-fields . 