A Hue-and-Cry AFTER THE PLOT . HAlloo the Plot ! where i'st ith' name of Fate ? Good People ! what's become of Seventy Eight ? 'Twas so long since , for all this great ado . There's Hope's , as said th' old Crone , it may'nt be true . These Years Egyptian Snakes we well may call , The've eat the former Heads , and Tails , and all : Never before was such and Hydra found ; Why't has in vain been Burned , and Hanged , and Drowned ; Yet still this Devil of a Plot revives ; Cats have but Nine , but this has Nine Cats Lives . By great St. Coleman first it saw the light , But then 'it's ugly shape so much did fright The Holy Father's , that without delay , Th' unlucky Bastard must be made away . And since to purpose they'd the Business do , In Godfreys Breast they Choked , and Stab'd it too , Yet what for a Deaths-wound they meant to give , Like and Imposthume pierced but made it Live , Then up it god , but yet unhappy still , 'Twas fairly hang'd with Bury , Green , and Hill , And then , as soon as his old Friends were Dead , By Transmigration into Langhorn fled . No wonder if it would not there abide , 'Twas stripped and whipped , and sadly mortify'd ; Huffy with that , it left the Ill-natur'd Elf E'ne to be string'd , and gutted by himself . Then with the Jesuits at the Bar Harangu'd ; Then made fine Speeches , and was finely Hang'd . Treason as Dogs do Puddings , it did scorn , And Dy'd as Innocent as Child unborn . Perk Perked up again it soon took up it's Station , To comfort Wakeman in his Tribulation , Grown Saucy there it Guinnys did not grudge , Presto , 10000 li . blew up the Judge , Tho' t'was the' unconscionablest Dog alive , In Fifteen-Thousand but to leave him five . Well George rubs off to France , but Plots so stout 'Twill play at small Games rather then stand out ; Grown jolly then with Dr. banished fears , And took a touch or two with brisk Celliers , But frighted leaps from Meal-Tubb something sadder , A Dow-baked Embryo like her BLOODY BLADDER , Hodg took the Lump , and dip't in Holy-Water , Wraps it up warm in Wool , and Observator , Brings it to Sams , where Crape with wine ecstatic , ( Who would have thought it , ) Christens it FANATIC Plots turned to Puss , will no kind Mortal house her ? See how she's worried by that Dog-Rogue Towzer . A PLOT ! the word's a spell , the Crown's undone , No Countercharm can save's but Forty one , And Forty eight , and Forty one , and then , Like Mill-Horse round to Forty eight again , A PLOT ! hence with the Bugbear , Sirs for shame , Sly callow Treasons lurk ith' pregnant name , 'Tis Sinons Horse ; as many Whigs are there As in the Dreadful Oxford Army were , Thus Roger yelps , as Children built a Town , Of Snow or Dirt only to beatrice it Down , No longer idling here , poor Plot will stand , But means to venture for a kinder Land. Yet there hoping to find a little rest Hee's hang'd because he will not take the TEST , And after all had made the Haddocks bite , But that the courteous Gallows claim'd it's right , 'Twas Conventickler next , but loath to lose It's life by falls of Pulpits , Seats , and Pews , It Trimmer turn'd , and if you ask for Proof , Here's Rogers Ipse Dixit , that's enough . 'Tis now Informer . If from thence it fallen It can be nothing but ------ THE DEVIL AND ALL . LONDON , Printed for F. Smith , at the Elephant and Castle in Cornhil . A Hue-and-Cry AFTER THE PLOT . HAlloo the Plot ! where i'st ith' name of Fate ? Good People ! what's become of Seventy Eight ? 'Twas so long since , for all this great ado . There's Hope's , as said th' old Crone , it may'nt be true . These Years Egyptian Snakes we well may call , The've eat the former Heads , and Tails , and all : Never before was such and Hydra found ; Why't has in vain been Burned , and Hanged , and Drowned ; Yet still this Devil of a Plot revives ; Cats have but Nine , but this has Nine Cats Lives . By great St. Coleman first it saw the light , But then 'it's ugly shape so much did fright The Holy Father's , that without delay , Th' unlucky Bastard must be made away . And since to purpose they'd the Business do , In Godfreys Breast they Choked , and Stab'd it too , Yet what for a Deaths-wound they meant to give , Like and Imposthume pierced but made it Live , Then up it god , but yet unhappy still , 'Twas fairly hang'd with Bury , Green , and Hill , And then , as soon as his old Friends were Dead , By Transmigration into Langhorn fled . No wonder if it would not there abide , 'Twas stripped and whipped , and sadly mortify'd ; Huffy with that , it left the Ill-natur'd Elf E'ne to be string'd , and gutted by himself . Then with the Jesuits at the Bar Harangu'd ; Then made fine Speeches , and was finely Hang'd . Treason as Dogs do Puddings , it did scorn , And Dy'd as Innocent as Child unborn . Perk Perked up again it soon took up it's Station , To comfort Wakeman in his Tribulation , Grown Saucy there it Guinnys did not grudge , Presto , 10000 li . blew up the Judge , Tho' t'was the' unconscionablest Dog alive , In Fifteen-Thousand but to leave him five . Well George rubs off to France , but Plots so stout 'Twill play at small Games rather then stand out ; Grown jolly then with Dr. banished fears , And took a touch or two with brisk Celliers , But frighted leaps from Meal-Tubb something sadder , A Dow-baked Embryo like her BLOODY BLADDER , Hodg took the Lump , and dip't in Holy-Water , Wraps it up warm in Wool , and Observator , Brings it to Sams , where Crape with wine ecstatic , ( Who would have thought it , ) Christens it FANATIC Plots turned to Puss , will no kind Mortal house her ? See how she's worried by that Dog-Rogue Towzer . A PLOT ! the word's a spell , the Crown's undone , No Countercharm can save's but Forty one , And Forty eight , and Forty one , and then , Like Mill-Horse round to Forty eight again , A PLOT ! hence with the Bugbear , Sirs for shame , Sly callow Treasons lurk ith' pregnant name , 'Tis Sinons Horse ; as many Whigs are there As in the Dreadful Oxford Army were , Thus Roger yelps , as Children built a Town , Of Snow or Dirt only to beatrice it Down , No longer idling here , poor Plot will stand , But means to venture for a kinder Land. Yet there hoping to find a little rest Hee's hang'd because he will not take the TEST , And after all had made the Haddocks bite , But that the courteous Gallows claim'd it's right , 'Twas Conventickler next , but loath to lose It's life by falls of Pulpits , Seats , and Pews , It Trimmer turn'd , and if you ask for Proof , Here's Rogers Ipse Dixit , that's enough . 'Tis now Informer . If from thence it fallen It can be nothing but ------ THE DEVIL AND ALL . LONDON , Printed for F. Smith , at the Elephant and Castle in Cornhil . 