( 1 ) ( 1 ) Hampstead-Wells . HAIL ! fairest WELLS , tho' late the MUSES Deign , To hear this Nymphs and Loves unsung , Complain . At length propitious to this eager Prayer , Bid Thee with ASTROP , TUNBRIDGE to compare ; And let thy FAME all Second-Honours scorn , High on the Wings of thy own Windmill born . What though thy crowded WALKS no TITLES boast , 'Tis Beauty , and not Birth , that makes the Toast . The ruddy Lip , Black Eyes , well-govern'd Fan , And a young swelling-forwardness for MAN , Will please , where Nature deals with equal Hand , Though from Round-Court , or from the neighbouring Strand . By Nature's Laws , in Love , Distinctions cease , And Ladies never scruple , but Undress . What else makes wanton R ------ ge with softn'd Grace , Sweep all the WALKS , and set her dimpled Face , To Catch the first promiscuous Embrace . And Bobby ( deaf to Honour ) from the Crowd , Choose a fair BEAU , with no big Title proud . ONE frankly from her China-Shop retires , Quitting a gainful Trade to quench her raging Fires . And fair Round-Court , taught by dear Mother's Arts , Neglecting High Honours and Deserts , Takes Petty-Fogger for his Larger Parts . Bright H --------- ley , both Beautiful and Young , The TOAST of every Glass , each Poet's Song , Whose glittering Charms do all the WALKS surprise , While her WIT speaks , and Triumphs of her Eyes ; Hears the Swains sighs , and hears them Sighs in vain , For She does all , with graceful Scorn , disdain : None but her Aged Sire her Passion moves , 'Tis he alone ( and pity 'tis ) she loves . With him she dangles to and from all Day , And in his silver Locks her pretty Fingers play . Hail ! F ------ r next , thou MAN and WOMAN too , That dost both Ways thy eager Lust pursue . Some secret Charms must , sure , in Thee prevail , For whom Swains languish , and the Nymphs look pale : What are the ARTS with which thou does ensnare , And led , at Will , the captivated FAIR ; That ( 2 ) That MAIDS who fear by Men to be undone , With hasty Joy to thy Embraces run ? Is it that from thy Bliss there is no fear , Ladies of Honour lost again shou'd hear , No prattling Boys shou'd to the World proclaim Their wanton Mother's Ruin , to their shame ? In vain ------ For SATYR shall the Theft reveal , While they a double Disappointment feel ; WIND , their Security , and empty Name , Cheated of Pleasure , and undone to Fame . Here , in vile Hack , the viler Punk comes down , Seeking thy Streams her inbred Fires to drown , Through whom the WATERS with loud Hissings pass , And one Green-Gown burns up the friendly Grass . But , o , Cane-WOOD ! let not thy Shades declare How oft , without Distinction from the Fair , The well-chin'd Clown has put in for a Share . Few here of unregarded VOWS complain , From mighty C --------- et to sweet I --------- k L --------- ne . Enough , my Muse , let the next Task display The Knights that in this happy Quarter stray , Where Fortune-Hunters ply for every Prize ; If from False-Oaths the wary WIDOW flies , He knows to Catch her Jointure by False Dice . Grave-headed CITS , with their Legitimate Raze , Of the same Depth of Brain , and the same Cut of Face ; The Gentle SIRES the newest Dance compose , And Squire the Ladies when the Tumbler shows . The sick Brigade that Whirls the Time away , And in soft Evening-Breezes gently play , To Cheat the Hippo , Gout and Sciatica . The Jolly Boys that roar for t'other Quart , And slowly from the Seventh Bowl depar Bowlers , with sweaty Night-Caps , and Strong-Feet , And humble Rogues that for a Tester Cheat . 'Twere endless to describe the Medley-Crew , Scarce such the late fam'd Smithfield-Cloysters knew ; And if thy FAME proceed so daring when so Young , What Triumphs to thy riper Years belong ? What happy Subject for and abler SONG ? FINIS . Printed in the YEAR , 1706. ( 1 ) ( 1 ) Hampstead-Wells . HAIL ! fairest WELLS , tho' late the MUSES Deign , To hear this Nymphs and Loves unsung , Complain . At length propitious to this eager Prayer , Bid Thee with ASTROP , TUNBRIDGE to compare ; And let thy FAME all Second-Honours scorn , High on the Wings of thy own Windmill born . What though thy crowded WALKS no TITLES boast , 'Tis Beauty , and not Birth , that makes the Toast . The ruddy Lip , Black Eyes , well-govern'd Fan , And a young swelling-forwardness for MAN , Will please , where Nature deals with equal Hand , Though from Round-Court , or from the neighbouring Strand . By Nature's Laws , in Love , Distinctions cease , And Ladies never scruple , but Undress . What else makes wanton R ------ ge with softn'd Grace , Sweep all the WALKS , and set her dimpled Face , To Catch the first promiscuous Embrace . And Bobby ( deaf to Honour ) from the Crowd , Choose a fair BEAU , with no big Title proud . ONE frankly from her China-Shop retires , Quitting a gainful Trade to quench her raging Fires . And fair Round-Court , taught by dear Mother's Arts , Neglecting High Honours and Deserts , Takes Petty-Fogger for his Larger Parts . Bright H --------- ley , both Beautiful and Young , The TOAST of every Glass , each Poet's Song , Whose glittering Charms do all the WALKS surprise , While her WIT speaks , and Triumphs of her Eyes ; Hears the Swains sighs , and hears them Sighs in vain , For She does all , with graceful Scorn , disdain : None but her Aged Sire her Passion moves , 'Tis he alone ( and pity 'tis ) she loves . With him she dangles to and from all Day , And in his silver Locks her pretty Fingers play . Hail ! F ------ r next , thou MAN and WOMAN too , That dost both Ways thy eager Lust pursue . Some secret Charms must , sure , in Thee prevail , For whom Swains languish , and the Nymphs look pale : What are the ARTS with which thou does ensnare , And led , at Will , the captivated FAIR ; That ( 2 ) That MAIDS who fear by Men to be undone , With hasty Joy to thy Embraces run ? Is it that from thy Bliss there is no fear , Ladies of Honour lost again shou'd hear , No prattling Boys shou'd to the World proclaim Their wanton Mother's Ruin , to their shame ? In vain ------ For SATYR shall the Theft reveal , While they a double Disappointment feel ; WIND , their Security , and empty Name , Cheated of Pleasure , and undone to Fame . Here , in vile Hack , the viler Punk comes down , Seeking thy Streams her inbred Fires to drown , Through whom the WATERS with loud Hissings pass , And one Green-Gown burns up the friendly Grass . But , o , Cane-WOOD ! let not thy Shades declare How oft , without Distinction from the Fair , The well-chin'd Clown has put in for a Share . Few here of unregarded VOWS complain , From mighty C --------- et to sweet I --------- k L --------- ne . Enough , my Muse , let the next Task display The Knights that in this happy Quarter stray , Where Fortune-Hunters ply for every Prize ; If from False-Oaths the wary WIDOW flies , He knows to Catch her Jointure by False Dice . Grave-headed CITS , with their Legitimate Raze , Of the same Depth of Brain , and the same Cut of Face ; The Gentle SIRES the newest Dance compose , And Squire the Ladies when the Tumbler shows . The sick Brigade that Whirls the Time away , And in soft Evening-Breezes gently play , To Cheat the Hippo , Gout and Sciatica . The Jolly Boys that roar for t'other Quart , And slowly from the Seventh Bowl depar Bowlers , with sweaty Night-Caps , and Strong-Feet , And humble Rogues that for a Tester Cheat . 'Twere endless to describe the Medley-Crew , Scarce such the late fam'd Smithfield-Cloysters knew ; And if thy FAME proceed so daring when so Young , What Triumphs to thy riper Years belong ? What happy Subject for and abler SONG ? FINIS . Printed in the YEAR , 1706. 