( 2 ) ( 1 ) Hampstead-Wells . PART II NOR all deserve the biting Satyr's Sting , The Muse can Virtue's too , in tuneful Numbers sing ; High as thy Hill , and healthful as thy Air , Thou happy Hampstead too can'st boast thy Fair . Tho' Julia , cloy'd with Praise , and early Vain , Did in her Choice her former Glories stain ; Tho' Messala appear profusely Gay , And as she moves , diffuse a borrow'd Ray ; Lys in Devotion show and early Saint , And seem and Angel in a Mask of Paint ; Chloris , and Daphne , and Semel employ Unlawful Arts , to cultivate their Joy , And hide , beneath the bending Busk , the Boy . Thou charming Delia , shalt forever live In Lines , immortal as the Muse can give . The Muse , transported with the glorious Theme , Flows to the Measures of the purling Stream ; Clear as thy Skin , where purple Rivers stray , And where at Ease , the dancing Spirits play , And make thee ever pleas'd , and ever gay . Far the harsh Murmurs of the dashing Sea ; Smooth Peace , and Halcyon Calms , forever dwell in thee . Oh! Beauty never stain'd , but form'd for Love , So wond'rous good , so like the Bless'd above : Oh! set me there , where , by some wond'rous Art , I may behold the Secrets of thy Hear Thy Goodness , which I yet but know in Part ; Where I the Mazes of thy Soul may see , Through which it forms so sweet a Harmony : How bilious Juice from purer Blood divides ? How from the fine , the grosser Part subsides ? Sharp Choler , by what Tracks remov'd away ; Why in thy Face the Blood reveals so bright a Day The blushing Rose , the purple Violet , The bright Carnation , and the Lily me Such ( 2 ) Such Odours from thy Lips forever flow , Such Beauty's on thy Cheeks forever glow ; So fine a Clearness on thy Breast below . Pleas'd with thy Lot , from Pride or Shame exempt , Below the Greatest , and above Contempt . Bless'd in thyself , thou seek'st no foreign Joy , The Pomps despising , which the Crowd employ , Which ( sooner than they give Content , they ) cloy . You all that Nature or your State require , Affording , satisfy your own Desire ; Not to the Vice submitting of your Kind , At large you feed the Pleasures of your Mind . And thus adorn'd , behold with pitying Eye , How others in Excess of Pleasure , lie Forever rack'd with Pain , in Torture roll , And ne'er can satisfy their thirsty Soul. Blind to their Happiness , they forward look , Despise the present , for a Joy mistook ; Earnest as Children for the painted Joy , Which , like a Shadow , their Embrace does fly . Each Morning Sun that sucks the early Due , Its upward Journey helping to pursue , Does the same Office , Heav'nly Saint , for you . Each Morn renews thy Praise to Heav'n above , Which pleas'd , returns thy Gratitude with Love . Above your Sex , so much as you're Divine , Above your Sex , so much in Heav'nly Rays you shine . Oh! happy Hampstead ! in so great a Bliss , Be ever all thy Habitants in Peace . Forever be thy wholesome Waters clear , Healthful thy Meadows , and serene thy Air . Let the bright Sun thy rising Roofs adorn ; Calm be thy Even , gentle be thy Morn . Forever flourish , still a rising Seat ; The wholesom'st Water , and the best Retreat . FINIS . London , Printed : And Sold by B. Bragge , at the Raven in Paternoster - Row . 1706. ( Price One Penny . ) ( 2 ) ( 1 ) Hampstead-Wells . PART II NOR all deserve the biting Satyr's Sting , The Muse can Virtue's too , in tuneful Numbers sing ; High as thy Hill , and healthful as thy Air , Thou happy Hampstead too can'st boast thy Fair . Tho' Julia , cloy'd with Praise , and early Vain , Did in her Choice her former Glories stain ; Tho' Messala appear profusely Gay , And as she moves , diffuse a borrow'd Ray ; Lys in Devotion show and early Saint , And seem and Angel in a Mask of Paint ; Chloris , and Daphne , and Semel employ Unlawful Arts , to cultivate their Joy , And hide , beneath the bending Busk , the Boy . Thou charming Delia , shalt forever live In Lines , immortal as the Muse can give . The Muse , transported with the glorious Theme , Flows to the Measures of the purling Stream ; Clear as thy Skin , where purple Rivers stray , And where at Ease , the dancing Spirits play , And make thee ever pleas'd , and ever gay . Far the harsh Murmurs of the dashing Sea ; Smooth Peace , and Halcyon Calms , forever dwell in thee . Oh! Beauty never stain'd , but form'd for Love , So wond'rous good , so like the Bless'd above : Oh! set me there , where , by some wond'rous Art , I may behold the Secrets of thy Hear Thy Goodness , which I yet but know in Part ; Where I the Mazes of thy Soul may see , Through which it forms so sweet a Harmony : How bilious Juice from purer Blood divides ? How from the fine , the grosser Part subsides ? Sharp Choler , by what Tracks remov'd away ; Why in thy Face the Blood reveals so bright a Day The blushing Rose , the purple Violet , The bright Carnation , and the Lily me Such ( 2 ) Such Odours from thy Lips forever flow , Such Beauty's on thy Cheeks forever glow ; So fine a Clearness on thy Breast below . Pleas'd with thy Lot , from Pride or Shame exempt , Below the Greatest , and above Contempt . Bless'd in thyself , thou seek'st no foreign Joy , The Pomps despising , which the Crowd employ , Which ( sooner than they give Content , they ) cloy . You all that Nature or your State require , Affording , satisfy your own Desire ; Not to the Vice submitting of your Kind , At large you feed the Pleasures of your Mind . And thus adorn'd , behold with pitying Eye , How others in Excess of Pleasure , lie Forever rack'd with Pain , in Torture roll , And ne'er can satisfy their thirsty Soul. Blind to their Happiness , they forward look , Despise the present , for a Joy mistook ; Earnest as Children for the painted Joy , Which , like a Shadow , their Embrace does fly . Each Morning Sun that sucks the early Due , Its upward Journey helping to pursue , Does the same Office , Heav'nly Saint , for you . Each Morn renews thy Praise to Heav'n above , Which pleas'd , returns thy Gratitude with Love . Above your Sex , so much as you're Divine , Above your Sex , so much in Heav'nly Rays you shine . Oh! happy Hampstead ! in so great a Bliss , Be ever all thy Habitants in Peace . Forever be thy wholesome Waters clear , Healthful thy Meadows , and serene thy Air . Let the bright Sun thy rising Roofs adorn ; Calm be thy Even , gentle be thy Morn . Forever flourish , still a rising Seat ; The wholesom'st Water , and the best Retreat . FINIS . London , Printed : And Sold by B. Bragge , at the Raven in Paternoster - Row . 1706. ( Price One Penny . ) 