The Character of a Trimmer . HAng out your Cloth , and let the Trumpet found , Here's such a Beast as Africk never own'd . A twisted Brutus , the Satyr in the Story , That blows up the Whig-Heat and cools the Tory. A State Hermaphrodite , whose doubtful Lust Salutes all Parties with and equal Gust . Like Iseland-Shocks , he seems two Nature's joyn'd , Savage before , and all Betrimm'd behind : And the well tutor'd Currs like him will strain ; Come over for the KING , and back again . 'Tis such a Sphinx , the Devil can't unriddle , A Human Schism upward from the middle , And splits again below , which gives us light To the sole Point that can all Sects unite . Thus did the fam'd Dutch-double-Monster Trimm , And that cleft Soul's Pythagoriz'd in him . Noah ( whom for the sake of Wine we love ) Sav'd Nature's breed by Mandate from above , But all the learned Sages do agree He kept his Ark from Mules and Leopards free , All such mix'd Animals he scorn'd to float , And would not save one Trimmer in his Boat . Beasts feed on Beasts , and Fish Fish devour , And o're weak Birds the Winged Tyrants tour ; But this same Land-Fish with his Feather'd-Finns Commits both Air , and Earth , and Water-Sins , Complies with those that Fly , and Walk , and Dive , But fastens only upon those that Thrive . In short , his only Art is to inveigle , Flatter the Popular-Power as well as Regal , Like a State Janus , or a Church Spread-Eagle . London : Printed for Jo. Hindmarsh , Bookseller to his Royal Highness , at the Black Bull in Cornhil , 1683. The Character of a Trimmer . HAng out your Cloth , and let the Trumpet found , Here's such a Beast as Africk never own'd . A twisted Brutus , the Satyr in the Story , That blows up the Whig-Heat and cools the Tory. A State Hermaphrodite , whose doubtful Lust Salutes all Parties with and equal Gust . Like Iseland-Shocks , he seems two Nature's joyn'd , Savage before , and all Betrimm'd behind : And the well tutor'd Currs like him will strain ; Come over for the KING , and back again . 'Tis such a Sphinx , the Devil can't unriddle , A Human Schism upward from the middle , And splits again below , which gives us light To the sole Point that can all Sects unite . Thus did the fam'd Dutch-double-Monster Trimm , And that cleft Soul's Pythagoriz'd in him . Noah ( whom for the sake of Wine we love ) Sav'd Nature's breed by Mandate from above , But all the learned Sages do agree He kept his Ark from Mules and Leopards free , All such mix'd Animals he scorn'd to float , And would not save one Trimmer in his Boat . Beasts feed on Beasts , and Fish Fish devour , And o're weak Birds the Winged Tyrants tour ; But this same Land-Fish with his Feather'd-Finns Commits both Air , and Earth , and Water-Sins , Complies with those that Fly , and Walk , and Dive , But fastens only upon those that Thrive . In short , his only Art is to inveigle , Flatter the Popular-Power as well as Regal , Like a State Janus , or a Church Spread-Eagle . London : Printed for Jo. Hindmarsh , Bookseller to his Royal Highness , at the Black Bull in Cornhil , 1683. 