King William's March ; OR THE Glorious Success of His Majesties Arms in Ireland . To a Pleasant New Trumpet Tune , call'd , King William's March . Licensed according to Order . HArk ! Hark! and yonder hear the Martial Thunder ; William the Great , he has now done the Feat , and his Hect'ring Foes knock under : Hark! the Roaring Cannon , Echoing all , Echoing all , with the Voice of Triumph call , from the Boyne and Shannon : From the Boyne and Shannon . ( 2 ) Nassau the Glorious , Drives them all before us , See how he Strides O're their heads , while he rides , Like the God of War , Victorious : Nor to make a Stay long , With a Jerk , with a Jerk , What kept Noll four years at work , Holds him but a Day long . Holds him but a Day long . ( 3 ) Teague , who Slimly , Once did look so Grimly , Like a true Jade , At his old Running Trade , Gallops o're his Bogs most nimbly : Monsieur all in haste too , Much ado , much ado , Without either Brogue or Shoe , Forc'd to Trot as fast too . Forc'd to Trot , etc ( 4 ) Jerny-bledu , and Nounze , Sir , Did you hear the Bouncer ? Ireland and all , Was a Breakfast too small , For the Hungry Maw of Monsieur : Swallow'd at a Swoop all , Till King Will , till King Will , Gave him such a bitter Pill , Made him Gourge it up all . Made him , etc ( 5 ) To Truck to France too , Teague had led the Dance too , And Monsieur DONE , Had the Kingdom outrun , Had his Friends in Hell stood Staunch too , Had they done their Duty : But Old Neck , but Old Neck , Play'd him such [ a ] slippery Trick , The Jacobites play'd Booty . The Jacobites , etc ( 6 ) By my Shoulwasion , A Plague confound this Fashion . Patrick our Head , Bu-bu-bo , he is Dead , And Jemmy has left our Nation : O Decrees , Sir , Mother Church , Mother Church , Has left poor Teagues own shelf i'th' Lurch , Without one Yard of Freeze , Sir . Without one Yard of Freeze , Sir . FINIS . Printed for Ch. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . King William's March ; OR THE Glorious Success of His Majesties Arms in Ireland . To a Pleasant New Trumpet Tune , call'd , King William's March . Licensed according to Order . HArk ! Hark! and yonder hear the Martial Thunder ; William the Great , he has now done the Feat , and his Hect'ring Foes knock under : Hark! the Roaring Cannon , Echoing all , Echoing all , with the Voice of Triumph call , from the Boyne and Shannon : From the Boyne and Shannon . ( 2 ) Nassau the Glorious , Drives them all before us , See how he Strides O're their heads , while he rides , Like the God of War , Victorious : Nor to make a Stay long , With a Jerk , with a Jerk , What kept Noll four years at work , Holds him but a Day long . Holds him but a Day long . ( 3 ) Teague , who Slimly , Once did look so Grimly , Like a true Jade , At his old Running Trade , Gallops o're his Bogs most nimbly : Monsieur all in haste too , Much ado , much ado , Without either Brogue or Shoe , Forc'd to Trot as fast too . Forc'd to Trot , etc ( 4 ) Jerny-bledu , and Nounze , Sir , Did you hear the Bouncer ? Ireland and all , Was a Breakfast too small , For the Hungry Maw of Monsieur : Swallow'd at a Swoop all , Till King Will , till King Will , Gave him such a bitter Pill , Made him Gourge it up all . Made him , etc ( 5 ) To Truck to France too , Teague had led the Dance too , And Monsieur DONE , Had the Kingdom outrun , Had his Friends in Hell stood Staunch too , Had they done their Duty : But Old Neck , but Old Neck , Play'd him such [ a ] slippery Trick , The Jacobites play'd Booty . The Jacobites , etc ( 6 ) By my Shoulwasion , A Plague confound this Fashion . Patrick our Head , Bu-bu-bo , he is Dead , And Jemmy has left our Nation : O Decrees , Sir , Mother Church , Mother Church , Has left poor Teagues own shelf i'th' Lurch , Without one Yard of Freeze , Sir . Without one Yard of Freeze , Sir . FINIS . Printed for Ch. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield . 