The Virgins Constancy ; Or the Faithful Mariner , Who proved most loyal , though he seem'd a Fariner : 'Tis a gallant new Ditty 'twixt William and Kathern , Their true lous for young ones may serve for a pattern . The tune is , Loves , ride , or . Wertenberg thou more fairer . HArd hap had I , poor harmless Maid , Thus by the Fates to be betray'd , My Loyal Friend , whose constant love , No tortures great could e'r remove , Was forc'd from me for to depart , Yet he alone enjoys my heart . My cruel friends incontinent Did work our woe and discontent 'Cause I was rich and he but poor , They hated him I know therefore , His Love was more then my desert , And he alone , etc When we engaged were by Oath , And plighted had a faithful Troth , For to be married out of hand , But when my Friends did understand , They forced him away to part , Yet he alone , etc They heap me as a Bird in Cage , And make my House their Hermitage , With Iron Barrs and Bolts so strong , That we endured double wrong : Which did increase our woe and smart , But he alone , etc Because the Fates had thus decreed , He to the Ocean sayl'd with speed , Where he remains for my sake , But will no other Sweetheart take : Heavens be thy guide where e'r thou art For he alone , etc The gaping Quicksands would devour My Loyal Friend each day and hour , But Heaven protect still and defend , My faithful Love unto the end : That he may play a Lovers part , For he alone , etc But if grim Death hath stole his Life , And hindered me to be his Wife , I wish the Finis of my breath , To meet with him although in death : Yet if grim Death hath spar'd his Dart , He shall enjoy my Lovesick heart . The second Part , to the same tune . MY cruel Friends who did disturb , True Lovers vows with fatal curb Are Mortuus est , all dead , and I Obtain again my Liberty : Yet live in Prison full of smart , Unless my friend enjoy my heart . When she had warbled forth this Song , How they had suffered too much wrong , Her Love came home , and stood to hear The Maiden sing her solemn Queire , How he was supreme of her heart , Wherefore he thus began his part . His Answer . Arise my Love , open the Door , And bid me welcome to the Shore , Now fortunes frowns are turn'd to smils I find her breast is full of wiles : Though all things frowns and angry be , Yet I will live and die with thee . Thou art alone my Beauty's Star , In thee my joys and blisses are , My thoughts lie rolling with thine eyes My heart must be a Sacrifice : Unless my dearest Love you'l be , For I must live and die with thee . I've brought thee hom most costly things Rare precious stones , & diamond Rings , Rich Taffities , and Silks so fine , To deck my Love , for thou art mine : As thou art mine so thine I'll be , And ever live and die with thee . Maid . Is this the voice of my sweet Will ? Whose faithful love is constant still , Then welcome home , what bliss is this That faithful Lovers now may kiss ? In heart I long'd thy face to see , That I might live , etc Man. I'm come again , my dearest Kate , Who went from thee through force of hate But now forgetting sorrows past , we may enjoy true love at las The Gordion knot in fine to tie , In love and peace to live and die . London , Printed for William Gilbertson , dwelling in Gilt-spur-street . The Virgins Constancy ; Or the Faithful Mariner , Who proved most loyal , though he seem'd a Fariner : 'Tis a gallant new Ditty 'twixt William and Kathern , Their true lous for young ones may serve for a pattern . The tune is , Loves , ride , or . Wertenberg thou more fairer . HArd hap had I , poor harmless Maid , Thus by the Fates to be betray'd , My Loyal Friend , whose constant love , No tortures great could e'r remove , Was forc'd from me for to depart , Yet he alone enjoys my heart . My cruel friends incontinent Did work our woe and discontent 'Cause I was rich and he but poor , They hated him I know therefore , His Love was more then my desert , And he alone , etc When we engaged were by Oath , And plighted had a faithful Troth , For to be married out of hand , But when my Friends did understand , They forced him away to part , Yet he alone , etc They heap me as a Bird in Cage , And make my House their Hermitage , With Iron Barrs and Bolts so strong , That we endured double wrong : Which did increase our woe and smart , But he alone , etc Because the Fates had thus decreed , He to the Ocean sayl'd with speed , Where he remains for my sake , But will no other Sweetheart take : Heavens be thy guide where e'r thou art For he alone , etc The gaping Quicksands would devour My Loyal Friend each day and hour , But Heaven protect still and defend , My faithful Love unto the end : That he may play a Lovers part , For he alone , etc But if grim Death hath stole his Life , And hindered me to be his Wife , I wish the Finis of my breath , To meet with him although in death : Yet if grim Death hath spar'd his Dart , He shall enjoy my Lovesick heart . The second Part , to the same tune . MY cruel Friends who did disturb , True Lovers vows with fatal curb Are Mortuus est , all dead , and I Obtain again my Liberty : Yet live in Prison full of smart , Unless my friend enjoy my heart . When she had warbled forth this Song , How they had suffered too much wrong , Her Love came home , and stood to hear The Maiden sing her solemn Queire , How he was supreme of her heart , Wherefore he thus began his part . His Answer . Arise my Love , open the Door , And bid me welcome to the Shore , Now fortunes frowns are turn'd to smils I find her breast is full of wiles : Though all things frowns and angry be , Yet I will live and die with thee . Thou art alone my Beauty's Star , In thee my joys and blisses are , My thoughts lie rolling with thine eyes My heart must be a Sacrifice : Unless my dearest Love you'l be , For I must live and die with thee . I've brought thee hom most costly things Rare precious stones , & diamond Rings , Rich Taffities , and Silks so fine , To deck my Love , for thou art mine : As thou art mine so thine I'll be , And ever live and die with thee . Maid . Is this the voice of my sweet Will ? Whose faithful love is constant still , Then welcome home , what bliss is this That faithful Lovers now may kiss ? In heart I long'd thy face to see , That I might live , etc Man. I'm come again , my dearest Kate , Who went from thee through force of hate But now forgetting sorrows past , we may enjoy true love at las The Gordion knot in fine to tie , In love and peace to live and die . London , Printed for William Gilbertson , dwelling in Gilt-spur-street . 