The Unhappy LOVERS Garland . In THREE PARTS . PART I . HARD by a sweet delightful green , Where shepherd's and their nymphs serene , A lady beautiful and fair , Did walk that way to take the air . A certain shepherd in the field , Young Cupid made his heart to yield , To love the charming beauty bright , The swain was wounded at her sighed . The shepherd cry'd what's come to me That I must thus entangled be , Oh! is it for that beauty fair , That I this burning torture bear . If it be so I love in vain , I know she [ ' ] ll scorn me with disdain , If I should court her for my dove , For she'll not be a shepherd's love . She is a lady of much might , And fit for some great lord or knight , Therefore my hope's are all in vain , She will not love a shepherd's swain . Alas ! could I no other see , According to my own degree , But I must fix my found delight , Upon a lady of such might Why am I of this foolish mind , To be in love so strong confin'd , With a great lady of renown , Hard fortune's does upon me frown . O that I might her servant be , To wait on her that I might see , Each day her charming pretty face , That does appear with so much grace . But o ! the fates are most unkind , I dare not for to tell my mind , Because I am unworthy sure , Come death and be my perfect cure . If I by writing should explain , My mind , she'll take it in disdain , And certainly make a scoff at me , Because I am of a mean degree . She is and heitess that I know , Therefore her father will bestow , Her on some wealthy man of fame , For which I well may blush for shame . To think of my unhappy fate , To love a woman that's so great , But yet I must do all I can , Yet now I am a ruin [ ' ] worser man . My fortune sure is very hard , To love and for to be debarr'd , From her whom I so fain wou'd have , I die , I die her captive slave . I am not the first that dy'd for love , So in this lonesome shady grove , I mean to end my mournful days , But while I live her charms I'll praise . PART II NOW in the second part I write , Concerning of this beauty bright , And in few words I'll briefly show , How she his love came for to know . One certain night then as it seems , This lady haunted was with dreams , And in her thoughts fancy'd a voice , A shepherd said would be her choice . He's all alone in yonder grove , With your sweet charms wrapp'd in love On that poor swain some pity take , Or else for you his heart will break . Next morning when she wak'd we find The lady ponder'd in her mind , And then she was resolv'd to go , To see if it was so or no . According to her dream she found , The shepherd lying on the ground , She was amaz'd the sighed to view , And said , I find some dreams are true . He looks to be but mean and poor , And I am blessed with riches store , Therefore he is no man for me , I must have one of high degree . I pity him that loves in vain , So thought to wander back again , With that young Cupid sent a dart , Which fairly shot her to the heart . With that she chang'd her tune and said I find my yielding heart betray'd , What sudden change is come to me , Methinks I love him tenderly . Not knowing that she was so near , He often cry'd , my love , my dear , My thoughts are tortur'd by your charms , I should be happy in your arms . And so thou shalt my love she cry'd , Then lovingly she sat by his side , And in her lap she plac'd his head , He could not speak but lay for dead . With over joy he swooned then , She soon revived him again , With some choice comfortable thing , Which she that time with her did bring . Being reviv'd these words he spoke , Lady , my heart is almost broke , Altho' I am unworthy sure , Your words afford a perfect cure . The lady said , sweet lovely swain , Thou shalt no longer love in vain , I w [ i ] ll not slight thee no not I , But strait into thy arms I'll fly . Altho' thou art but mean and poor , Thou shalt be master of my store , Since thou hast such love for me , I'll die before I'll part with thee . Oft times they did appoint to meet , With compliments and kisses sweet , They often did their joys renew , As constant lovers ought to do . But many crosses fallen in love , To those that do constant prove , Give me but leave and I shall write , How all their joys were blasted quite . PART III . 'TWAS told her father out of spite , A shepher'd was her whole delight Which put him into such a rage , That nothing could his wrath assuage . So sending for his daughter strait , Between them was a great debate , He used yet great arguments , That he would show great violence . You may have noblemen , I know , And now would you disgrace us so , The love of the shepherd's crew , I mean to punish him and you . Father , if you in scripture look , King David had a shepherd's crook , And was a shepherd too I know , Then don't despise a shepherd so . Her father said with spleen in heart , I will confine you for your part , And him I will to prison send , A gallows soon shall be his end , She to her chamber was confin'd , Like one distracted in her mind , Hearing he was to prison sent , She tore her hair and did lament . This passed on , at length one day , Her father mildly thus did say , You must with me to London go , And for what reason you shall know . A noble baron there does dwell . I am assured loves you well . If you will yield to be his wife , Then will I save the shepherd's life . And set him at his liberty , But otherwise he sure shall die , To save his life she was so kind , To yield , tho' much against her mind . So then up to London came To see this baron of great fame , The marriage rites they did fulfil , Altho' it was against her will . The shepherd did his freedom gain , But was in sad tormenting pain , To loose his love that was so kind , He could no rest or comfort find . The shepherd said this vow I make , Never to marry for her sake , But will go single to the grave , That loving lady's captive slave . And the poor lady for her part , Lamented still with heavy heart , Her husband prov'd a villain too , And did resort with wicked crew . For he was so extravagant , That all her substance soon was spent , And then left her in sad distress , Poor lady , she was comfortless . This is the truth we know full well , The lady quite distracted fell , In raving manner day and night , She said , my joys are blasted quite . O bring my shepherd unto me , That I his pretty face might see , And I will be his loving bride , So raving mad the lady dy'd . This caus'd the father to lament , So then he for the shepherd sent , And settled on him as we hear , The sum of fifty pounds a year . Her father to him thus did say , Cheer up good shepherd now I pray , Some care of thee I mean to take , For my dear loving daughter's sake . The shepherd still no rest could find , But was tormented in his mind , In little time he broke his heart , Which put and end to all his smarts . LONDON : Printed and Sold at SYMPSON's Warehouse , in Stonecutter-Street Fleet-Ma [ rket . ] The Unhappy LOVERS Garland . In THREE PARTS . PART I . HARD by a sweet delightful green , Where shepherd's and their nymphs serene , A lady beautiful and fair , Did walk that way to take the air . A certain shepherd in the field , Young Cupid made his heart to yield , To love the charming beauty bright , The swain was wounded at her sighed . The shepherd cry'd what's come to me That I must thus entangled be , Oh! is it for that beauty fair , That I this burning torture bear . If it be so I love in vain , I know she [ ' ] ll scorn me with disdain , If I should court her for my dove , For she'll not be a shepherd's love . She is a lady of much might , And fit for some great lord or knight , Therefore my hope's are all in vain , She will not love a shepherd's swain . Alas ! could I no other see , According to my own degree , But I must fix my found delight , Upon a lady of such might Why am I of this foolish mind , To be in love so strong confin'd , With a great lady of renown , Hard fortune's does upon me frown . O that I might her servant be , To wait on her that I might see , Each day her charming pretty face , That does appear with so much grace . But o ! the fates are most unkind , I dare not for to tell my mind , Because I am unworthy sure , Come death and be my perfect cure . If I by writing should explain , My mind , she'll take it in disdain , And certainly make a scoff at me , Because I am of a mean degree . She is and heitess that I know , Therefore her father will bestow , Her on some wealthy man of fame , For which I well may blush for shame . To think of my unhappy fate , To love a woman that's so great , But yet I must do all I can , Yet now I am a ruin [ ' ] worser man . My fortune sure is very hard , To love and for to be debarr'd , From her whom I so fain wou'd have , I die , I die her captive slave . I am not the first that dy'd for love , So in this lonesome shady grove , I mean to end my mournful days , But while I live her charms I'll praise . PART II NOW in the second part I write , Concerning of this beauty bright , And in few words I'll briefly show , How she his love came for to know . One certain night then as it seems , This lady haunted was with dreams , And in her thoughts fancy'd a voice , A shepherd said would be her choice . He's all alone in yonder grove , With your sweet charms wrapp'd in love On that poor swain some pity take , Or else for you his heart will break . Next morning when she wak'd we find The lady ponder'd in her mind , And then she was resolv'd to go , To see if it was so or no . According to her dream she found , The shepherd lying on the ground , She was amaz'd the sighed to view , And said , I find some dreams are true . He looks to be but mean and poor , And I am blessed with riches store , Therefore he is no man for me , I must have one of high degree . I pity him that loves in vain , So thought to wander back again , With that young Cupid sent a dart , Which fairly shot her to the heart . With that she chang'd her tune and said I find my yielding heart betray'd , What sudden change is come to me , Methinks I love him tenderly . Not knowing that she was so near , He often cry'd , my love , my dear , My thoughts are tortur'd by your charms , I should be happy in your arms . And so thou shalt my love she cry'd , Then lovingly she sat by his side , And in her lap she plac'd his head , He could not speak but lay for dead . With over joy he swooned then , She soon revived him again , With some choice comfortable thing , Which she that time with her did bring . Being reviv'd these words he spoke , Lady , my heart is almost broke , Altho' I am unworthy sure , Your words afford a perfect cure . The lady said , sweet lovely swain , Thou shalt no longer love in vain , I w [ i ] ll not slight thee no not I , But strait into thy arms I'll fly . Altho' thou art but mean and poor , Thou shalt be master of my store , Since thou hast such love for me , I'll die before I'll part with thee . Oft times they did appoint to meet , With compliments and kisses sweet , They often did their joys renew , As constant lovers ought to do . But many crosses fallen in love , To those that do constant prove , Give me but leave and I shall write , How all their joys were blasted quite . PART III . 'TWAS told her father out of spite , A shepher'd was her whole delight Which put him into such a rage , That nothing could his wrath assuage . So sending for his daughter strait , Between them was a great debate , He used yet great arguments , That he would show great violence . You may have noblemen , I know , And now would you disgrace us so , The love of the shepherd's crew , I mean to punish him and you . Father , if you in scripture look , King David had a shepherd's crook , And was a shepherd too I know , Then don't despise a shepherd so . Her father said with spleen in heart , I will confine you for your part , And him I will to prison send , A gallows soon shall be his end , She to her chamber was confin'd , Like one distracted in her mind , Hearing he was to prison sent , She tore her hair and did lament . This passed on , at length one day , Her father mildly thus did say , You must with me to London go , And for what reason you shall know . A noble baron there does dwell . I am assured loves you well . If you will yield to be his wife , Then will I save the shepherd's life . And set him at his liberty , But otherwise he sure shall die , To save his life she was so kind , To yield , tho' much against her mind . So then up to London came To see this baron of great fame , The marriage rites they did fulfil , Altho' it was against her will . The shepherd did his freedom gain , But was in sad tormenting pain , To loose his love that was so kind , He could no rest or comfort find . The shepherd said this vow I make , Never to marry for her sake , But will go single to the grave , That loving lady's captive slave . And the poor lady for her part , Lamented still with heavy heart , Her husband prov'd a villain too , And did resort with wicked crew . For he was so extravagant , That all her substance soon was spent , And then left her in sad distress , Poor lady , she was comfortless . This is the truth we know full well , The lady quite distracted fell , In raving manner day and night , She said , my joys are blasted quite . O bring my shepherd unto me , That I his pretty face might see , And I will be his loving bride , So raving mad the lady dy'd . This caus'd the father to lament , So then he for the shepherd sent , And settled on him as we hear , The sum of fifty pounds a year . Her father to him thus did say , Cheer up good shepherd now I pray , Some care of thee I mean to take , For my dear loving daughter's sake . The shepherd still no rest could find , But was tormented in his mind , In little time he broke his heart , Which put and end to all his smarts . LONDON : Printed and Sold at SYMPSON's Warehouse , in Stonecutter-Street Fleet-Ma [ rket . ] The Unhappy LOVERS Garland . In THREE PARTS . PART I . HARD by a sweet delightful green , Where shepherd's and their nymphs serene , A lady beautiful and fair , Did walk that way to take the air . A certain shepherd in the field , Young Cupid made his heart to yield , To love the charming beauty bright , The swain was wounded at her sighed . The shepherd cry'd what's come to me That I must thus entangled be , Oh! is it for that beauty fair , That I this burning torture bear . If it be so I love in vain , I know she [ ' ] ll scorn me with disdain , If I should court her for my dove , For she'll not be a shepherd's love . She is a lady of much might , And fit for some great lord or knight , Therefore my hope's are all in vain , She will not love a shepherd's swain . Alas ! could I no other see , According to my own degree , But I must fix my found delight , Upon a lady of such might Why am I of this foolish mind , To be in love so strong confin'd , With a great lady of renown , Hard fortune's does upon me frown . O that I might her servant be , To wait on her that I might see , Each day her charming pretty face , That does appear with so much grace . But o ! the fates are most unkind , I dare not for to tell my mind , Because I am unworthy sure , Come death and be my perfect cure . If I by writing should explain , My mind , she'll take it in disdain , And certainly make a scoff at me , Because I am of a mean degree . She is and heitess that I know , Therefore her father will bestow , Her on some wealthy man of fame , For which I well may blush for shame . To think of my unhappy fate , To love a woman that's so great , But yet I must do all I can , Yet now I am a ruin [ ' ] worser man . My fortune sure is very hard , To love and for to be debarr'd , From her whom I so fain wou'd have , I die , I die her captive slave . I am not the first that dy'd for love , So in this lonesome shady grove , I mean to end my mournful days , But while I live her charms I'll praise . PART II NOW in the second part I write , Concerning of this beauty bright , And in few words I'll briefly show , How she his love came for to know . One certain night then as it seems , This lady haunted was with dreams , And in her thoughts fancy'd a voice , A shepherd said would be her choice . He's all alone in yonder grove , With your sweet charms wrapp'd in love On that poor swain some pity take , Or else for you his heart will break . Next morning when she wak'd we find The lady ponder'd in her mind , And then she was resolv'd to go , To see if it was so or no . According to her dream she found , The shepherd lying on the ground , She was amaz'd the sighed to view , And said , I find some dreams are true . He looks to be but mean and poor , And I am blessed with riches store , Therefore he is no man for me , I must have one of high degree . I pity him that loves in vain , So thought to wander back again , With that young Cupid sent a dart , Which fairly shot her to the heart . With that she chang'd her tune and said I find my yielding heart betray'd , What sudden change is come to me , Methinks I love him tenderly . Not knowing that she was so near , He often cry'd , my love , my dear , My thoughts are tortur'd by your charms , I should be happy in your arms . And so thou shalt my love she cry'd , Then lovingly she sat by his side , And in her lap she plac'd his head , He could not speak but lay for dead . With over joy he swooned then , She soon revived him again , With some choice comfortable thing , Which she that time with her did bring . Being reviv'd these words he spoke , Lady , my heart is almost broke , Altho' I am unworthy sure , Your words afford a perfect cure . The lady said , sweet lovely swain , Thou shalt no longer love in vain , I w [ i ] ll not slight thee no not I , But strait into thy arms I'll fly . Altho' thou art but mean and poor , Thou shalt be master of my store , Since thou hast such love for me , I'll die before I'll part with thee . Oft times they did appoint to meet , With compliments and kisses sweet , They often did their joys renew , As constant lovers ought to do . But many crosses fallen in love , To those that do constant prove , Give me but leave and I shall write , How all their joys were blasted quite . PART III . 'TWAS told her father out of spite , A shepher'd was her whole delight Which put him into such a rage , That nothing could his wrath assuage . So sending for his daughter strait , Between them was a great debate , He used yet great arguments , That he would show great violence . You may have noblemen , I know , And now would you disgrace us so , The love of the shepherd's crew , I mean to punish him and you . Father , if you in scripture look , King David had a shepherd's crook , And was a shepherd too I know , Then don't despise a shepherd so . Her father said with spleen in heart , I will confine you for your part , And him I will to prison send , A gallows soon shall be his end , She to her chamber was confin'd , Like one distracted in her mind , Hearing he was to prison sent , She tore her hair and did lament . This passed on , at length one day , Her father mildly thus did say , You must with me to London go , And for what reason you shall know . A noble baron there does dwell . I am assured loves you well . If you will yield to be his wife , Then will I save the shepherd's life . And set him at his liberty , But otherwise he sure shall die , To save his life she was so kind , To yield , tho' much against her mind . So then up to London came To see this baron of great fame , The marriage rites they did fulfil , Altho' it was against her will . The shepherd did his freedom gain , But was in sad tormenting pain , To loose his love that was so kind , He could no rest or comfort find . The shepherd said this vow I make , Never to marry for her sake , But will go single to the grave , That loving lady's captive slave . And the poor lady for her part , Lamented still with heavy heart , Her husband prov'd a villain too , And did resort with wicked crew . For he was so extravagant , That all her substance soon was spent , And then left her in sad distress , Poor lady , she was comfortless . This is the truth we know full well , The lady quite distracted fell , In raving manner day and night , She said , my joys are blasted quite . O bring my shepherd unto me , That I his pretty face might see , And I will be his loving bride , So raving mad the lady dy'd . This caus'd the father to lament , So then he for the shepherd sent , And settled on him as we hear , The sum of fifty pounds a year . Her father to him thus did say , Cheer up good shepherd now I pray , Some care of thee I mean to take , For my dear loving daughter's sake . The shepherd still no rest could find , But was tormented in his mind , In little time he broke his heart , Which put and end to all his smarts . LONDON : Printed and Sold at SYMPSON's Warehouse , in Stonecutter-Street Fleet-Ma [ rket . ] The Unhappy LOVERS Garland . In THREE PARTS . PART I . HARD by a sweet delightful green , Where shepherd's and their nymphs serene , A lady beautiful and fair , Did walk that way to take the air . A certain shepherd in the field , Young Cupid made his heart to yield , To love the charming beauty bright , The swain was wounded at her sighed . The shepherd cry'd what's come to me That I must thus entangled be , Oh! is it for that beauty fair , That I this burning torture bear . If it be so I love in vain , I know she [ ' ] ll scorn me with disdain , If I should court her for my dove , For she'll not be a shepherd's love . She is a lady of much might , And fit for some great lord or knight , Therefore my hope's are all in vain , She will not love a shepherd's swain . Alas ! could I no other see , According to my own degree , But I must fix my found delight , Upon a lady of such might Why am I of this foolish mind , To be in love so strong confin'd , With a great lady of renown , Hard fortune's does upon me frown . O that I might her servant be , To wait on her that I might see , Each day her charming pretty face , That does appear with so much grace . But o ! the fates are most unkind , I dare not for to tell my mind , Because I am unworthy sure , Come death and be my perfect cure . If I by writing should explain , My mind , she'll take it in disdain , And certainly make a scoff at me , Because I am of a mean degree . She is and heitess that I know , Therefore her father will bestow , Her on some wealthy man of fame , For which I well may blush for shame . To think of my unhappy fate , To love a woman that's so great , But yet I must do all I can , Yet now I am a ruin [ ' ] worser man . My fortune sure is very hard , To love and for to be debarr'd , From her whom I so fain wou'd have , I die , I die her captive slave . I am not the first that dy'd for love , So in this lonesome shady grove , I mean to end my mournful days , But while I live her charms I'll praise . PART II NOW in the second part I write , Concerning of this beauty bright , And in few words I'll briefly show , How she his love came for to know . One certain night then as it seems , This lady haunted was with dreams , And in her thoughts fancy'd a voice , A shepherd said would be her choice . He's all alone in yonder grove , With your sweet charms wrapp'd in love On that poor swain some pity take , Or else for you his heart will break . Next morning when she wak'd we find The lady ponder'd in her mind , And then she was resolv'd to go , To see if it was so or no . According to her dream she found , The shepherd lying on the ground , She was amaz'd the sighed to view , And said , I find some dreams are true . He looks to be but mean and poor , And I am blessed with riches store , Therefore he is no man for me , I must have one of high degree . I pity him that loves in vain , So thought to wander back again , With that young Cupid sent a dart , Which fairly shot her to the heart . With that she chang'd her tune and said I find my yielding heart betray'd , What sudden change is come to me , Methinks I love him tenderly . Not knowing that she was so near , He often cry'd , my love , my dear , My thoughts are tortur'd by your charms , I should be happy in your arms . And so thou shalt my love she cry'd , Then lovingly she sat by his side , And in her lap she plac'd his head , He could not speak but lay for dead . With over joy he swooned then , She soon revived him again , With some choice comfortable thing , Which she that time with her did bring . Being reviv'd these words he spoke , Lady , my heart is almost broke , Altho' I am unworthy sure , Your words afford a perfect cure . The lady said , sweet lovely swain , Thou shalt no longer love in vain , I w [ i ] ll not slight thee no not I , But strait into thy arms I'll fly . Altho' thou art but mean and poor , Thou shalt be master of my store , Since thou hast such love for me , I'll die before I'll part with thee . Oft times they did appoint to meet , With compliments and kisses sweet , They often did their joys renew , As constant lovers ought to do . But many crosses fallen in love , To those that do constant prove , Give me but leave and I shall write , How all their joys were blasted quite . PART III . 'TWAS told her father out of spite , A shepher'd was her whole delight Which put him into such a rage , That nothing could his wrath assuage . So sending for his daughter strait , Between them was a great debate , He used yet great arguments , That he would show great violence . You may have noblemen , I know , And now would you disgrace us so , The love of the shepherd's crew , I mean to punish him and you . Father , if you in scripture look , King David had a shepherd's crook , And was a shepherd too I know , Then don't despise a shepherd so . Her father said with spleen in heart , I will confine you for your part , And him I will to prison send , A gallows soon shall be his end , She to her chamber was confin'd , Like one distracted in her mind , Hearing he was to prison sent , She tore her hair and did lament . This passed on , at length one day , Her father mildly thus did say , You must with me to London go , And for what reason you shall know . A noble baron there does dwell . I am assured loves you well . If you will yield to be his wife , Then will I save the shepherd's life . And set him at his liberty , But otherwise he sure shall die , To save his life she was so kind , To yield , tho' much against her mind . So then up to London came To see this baron of great fame , The marriage rites they did fulfil , Altho' it was against her will . The shepherd did his freedom gain , But was in sad tormenting pain , To loose his love that was so kind , He could no rest or comfort find . The shepherd said this vow I make , Never to marry for her sake , But will go single to the grave , That loving lady's captive slave . And the poor lady for her part , Lamented still with heavy heart , Her husband prov'd a villain too , And did resort with wicked crew . For he was so extravagant , That all her substance soon was spent , And then left her in sad distress , Poor lady , she was comfortless . This is the truth we know full well , The lady quite distracted fell , In raving manner day and night , She said , my joys are blasted quite . O bring my shepherd unto me , That I his pretty face might see , And I will be his loving bride , So raving mad the lady dy'd . This caus'd the father to lament , So then he for the shepherd sent , And settled on him as we hear , The sum of fifty pounds a year . Her father to him thus did say , Cheer up good shepherd now I pray , Some care of thee I mean to take , For my dear loving daughter's sake . The shepherd still no rest could find , But was tormented in his mind , In little time he broke his heart , Which put and end to all his smarts . LONDON : Printed and Sold at SYMPSON's Warehouse , in Stonecutter-Street Fleet-Ma [ rket . ] 