[ A Pleasant ] BALLAD of King HENRY the Second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Miller's House , and of their pleasant Communication . To the Tune of , The French Levalto , etc HEnry our Royal King would ride a hunting , to the green forest so pleasant and fair , To have the heart chased , and dainty does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and hound was unbound , all things prepar'd , For the same , to the game , with good regard . All a long summer's day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes and Nobles each one ; Chasing the heart , and hind , and the buck gallantly , till the dark evening forc'd him to turn home : Then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , All his Lords in the wood , late in dark night ; Wandering thus warily , all alone up and down , with a rude Miller he met at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller , your way you have los Yet I think , what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why , what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman thief ; Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Knave's crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , quod the King , saying thus , I am a Gentleman , and lodging I lack . Thou hast not , quod the Miller , one groat in thy purse , all thy inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it be forty pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a Trueman , then quoth the Miller , I swear by my tole-dish I'll lodge thee all night . Here's my hand , quoth the King , that was I ever . Nay soft , quod the Miller , thou may'st be a Spright ; Better I'll know thee , e'er hands I will take ; With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Miller's house , where they were seething of puddings and souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house : Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , Look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie . Quoth his wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best ( husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently , making low courtesy , with his hat in his hand thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller , his wife whispered secretly , saying , It seems this Youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Miller's wife , young Man welcome here , and though I say it , well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have , laid on thy bed so brave , good brown hempon-sheets likewise , quoth she . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse then our own Son. Nay first , quoth Richard , Goodfel [ l ] owe tell me true , hast thou no creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the scabbado ? I pray , quoth our King , what things are those ? Art thou not lousy , nor scabby ? quoth he , If thou be'st , surely thou ly'st not with me . This caus'd the King should [ worser ] enly to laugh most heartily ti [ l ] l the tears trickled down from his eyes ; Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies ; Nappy ale , good and stale , in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here , quoth the Miller , Goodfellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals wherever they be . I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartily for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner i'll drink to your Son. Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the Miller , fetch me forth lightfoot , that we of his sweetness a little may taste ; A fair venision-pasty , then brought she forth presently : Eat , quoth the Miller , but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty lightfoot , in faith , said our King , I never before did eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said our King may be bought like to this ? We never pay penny for it by faith : From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our King's deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is venision , Each fool ( quoth Richard ) full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We w [ oh ] uld not for twopence the King should it know . Doubt not , then said the King , my promis'd secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down , For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the Miller's house soon they espy'd him plain as he was mounting upon his fair steed , To whom they came presently , falling upon their knee , which made the Miller's heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his Head : But his kind courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a Knight . The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his Wife and Son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . When as our Royal King came home from Notting-ham , And with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late progress along by the way : Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield's sport liked him bes And now my Lords , quod the King , I am determined , against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed Knight , with his son Ri [ c ] hard shall both be my guess , For in this merriment ' [ tO ] is my desire , To talk with the jolly Knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the King's pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A Pursuivant there was sent str [ a ] ight on the business , the which had often times been in those parts : When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell : God save your Worship , then said the Messenger , and grant your Lady her heart's desire ; And to your Son R [ i ] chard good fortune and happiness that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young squire , Our King greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. George's day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place . I wis , quoth the Miller , this is and odd jest ; What should we do there ? he said , faith I am half afraid . I doubt ( quoth Richard ) be hang'd at the least . Nay , quoth the Messenger , you do mistake , Our King he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the Miller , Now by my troth , Messenger , thou hast contented my Worship full well : Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness , for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell : Let me see , here's to thee , tell to our King , We'll wait on his Mastership in everything . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their reward : And taking then his leave with great humility , to the King's Court again he repair'd : Showing unto his Grace in each degree , The Knight's most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , here comes expenses and charges indeed , Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have ; for of new garments we have great need : Of horses and servingmen we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush , Sir John , quoth his Wife , never fret nor frown , you shall be at n [ A Pleasant ] BALLAD of King HENRY the Second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Miller's House , and of their pleasant Communication . To the Tune of , The French Levalto , etc HEnry our Royal King would ride a hunting , to the green forest so pleasant and fair , To have the heart chased , and dainty does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and hound was unbound , all things prepar'd , For the same , to the game , with good regard . All a long summer's day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes and Nobles each one ; Chasing the heart , and hind , and the buck gallantly , till the dark evening forc'd him to turn home : Then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , All his Lords in the wood , late in dark night ; Wandering thus warily , all alone up and down , with a rude Miller he met at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller , your way you have los Yet I think , what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why , what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman thief ; Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Knave's crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , quod the King , saying thus , I am a Gentleman , and lodging I lack . Thou hast not , quod the Miller , one groat in thy purse , all thy inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it be forty pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a Trueman , then quoth the Miller , I swear by my tole-dish I'll lodge thee all night . Here's my hand , quoth the King , that was I ever . Nay soft , quod the Miller , thou may'st be a Spright ; Better I'll know thee , e'er hands I will take ; With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Miller's house , where they were seething of puddings and souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house : Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , Look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie . Quoth his wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best ( husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently , making low courtesy , with his hat in his hand thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller , his wife whispered secretly , saying , It seems this Youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Miller's wife , young Man welcome here , and though I say it , well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have , laid on thy bed so brave , good brown hempon-sheets likewise , quoth she . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse then our own Son. Nay first , quoth Richard , Goodfel [ l ] owe tell me true , hast thou no creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the scabbado ? I pray , quoth our King , what things are those ? Art thou not lousy , nor scabby ? quoth he , If thou be'st , surely thou ly'st not with me . This caus'd the King should [ worser ] enly to laugh most heartily ti [ l ] l the tears trickled down from his eyes ; Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies ; Nappy ale , good and stale , in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here , quoth the Miller , Goodfellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals wherever they be . I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartily for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner i'll drink to your Son. Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the Miller , fetch me forth lightfoot , that we of his sweetness a little may taste ; A fair venision-pasty , then brought she forth presently : Eat , quoth the Miller , but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty lightfoot , in faith , said our King , I never before did eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said our King may be bought like to this ? We never pay penny for it by faith : From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our King's deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is venision , Each fool ( quoth Richard ) full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We w [ oh ] uld not for twopence the King should it know . Doubt not , then said the King , my promis'd secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down , For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the Miller's house soon they espy'd him plain as he was mounting upon his fair steed , To whom they came presently , falling upon their knee , which made the Miller's heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his Head : But his kind courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a Knight . The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his Wife and Son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . When as our Royal King came home from Notting-ham , And with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late progress along by the way : Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield's sport liked him bes And now my Lords , quod the King , I am determined , against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed Knight , with his son Ri [ c ] hard shall both be my guess , For in this merriment ' [ tO ] is my desire , To talk with the jolly Knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the King's pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A Pursuivant there was sent str [ a ] ight on the business , the which had often times been in those parts : When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell : God save your Worship , then said the Messenger , and grant your Lady her heart's desire ; And to your Son R [ i ] chard good fortune and happiness that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young squire , Our King greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. George's day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place . I wis , quoth the Miller , this is and odd jest ; What should we do there ? he said , faith I am half afraid . I doubt ( quoth Richard ) be hang'd at the least . Nay , quoth the Messenger , you do mistake , Our King he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the Miller , Now by my troth , Messenger , thou hast contented my Worship full well : Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness , for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell : Let me see , here's to thee , tell to our King , We'll wait on his Mastership in everything . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their reward : And taking then his leave with great humility , to the King's Court again he repair'd : Showing unto his Grace in each degree , The Knight's most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , here comes expenses and charges indeed , Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have ; for of new garments we have great need : Of horses and servingmen we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush , Sir John , quoth his Wife , never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more charges for me , For I will turn and [ worser ] trim up my old russet gown , with eve [ r ] ything as fine as may be : And on our mill-horses full swift we will ride , With pillows and panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort , road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap , a cock's feather in his cap , and so they jetted down towards the King's Hall : The merry old Miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Marrien did mince at that tide . The King and his Nobles , that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir Knight quod he , with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle , once welcome again ; And so is this Squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , Abbots on you do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , How should I forget thee ? thou wast my own bedfellow well that I woe But I think of a trick , tell me that , prithee Dick , how thou with farting did'st make the bed hight ? Thou whoreson happy Knave , then quoth the Knight , Speak cleanly to our King or else go shite . The King and his Courtiers heartily laughed at this , while the King took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Miller's Wife did so orderly stand , A Milkmaid's courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the sideboard : Where the King royally , in Princely Majesty , sat at his dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of wine drank to the Knigh Here's to you both , he said , in wine , ale and beer , Thanking you all for your country cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle , I'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said our King , I do think of a thing , some of your lightfoot I would we had here . Ho , ho , quoth Richard , full well I may say it , 'Tis knavery to eat it , and then to betray it . Why art thou angry ? quoth our King merrily , in faith I take it very unkind ; I thought thou would'st pledge me in ale and wine heartily . You'r like to stay , quoth Dick , till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds , a black-pudding is better then all . Ay , marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat . With that Dick arose , and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to swea The King made a proffer to snatch it away , 'Tis meat for your Master , good Sir you must stay . Thus in great merriment , was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , The Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache . Many thanks for their pains , did the King give them , asking young Richard if he would be wed , Among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee : Quoth he , Juge G [ r ] umbol with the read head ; She's my love , she's my life , she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her maidenhead . Then Sir John Cockle , the King call'd unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer , And gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly , And now take heed you steal no more of my deer : And once a quarter let's here have your view , And thus Sir John Cockle , I bid you adieu . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . oh more charges for me , For I will turn and [ worser ] trim up my old russet gown , with eve [ r ] ything as fine as may be : And on our mill-horses full swift we will ride , With pillows and panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort , road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap , a cock's feather in his cap , and so they jetted down towards the King's Hall : The merry old Miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Marrien did mince at that tide . The King and his Nobles , that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir Knight quod he , with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle , once welcome again ; And so is this Squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , Abbots on you do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , How should I forget thee ? thou wast my own bedfellow well that I woe But I think of a trick , tell me that , prithee Dick , how thou with farting did'st make the bed hight ? Thou whoreson happy Knave , then quoth the Knight , Speak cleanly to our King or else go shite . The King and his Courtiers heartily laughed at this , while the King took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Miller's Wife did so orderly stand , A Milkmaid's courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the sideboard : Where the King royally , in Princely Majesty , sat at his dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of wine drank to the Knigh Here's to you both , he said , in wine , ale and beer , Thanking you all for your country cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle , I'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said our King , I do think of a thing , some of your lightfoot I would we had here . Ho , ho , quoth Richard , full well I may say it , 'Tis knavery to eat it , and then to betray it . Why art thou angry ? quoth our King merrily , in faith I take it very unkind ; I thought thou would'st pledge me in ale and wine heartily . You'r like to stay , quoth Dick , till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds , a black-pudding is better then all . Ay , marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat . With that Dick arose , and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to swea The King made a proffer to snatch it away , 'Tis meat for your Master , good Sir you must stay . Thus in great merriment , was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , The Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache . Many thanks for their pains , did the King give them , asking young Richard if he would be wed , Among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee : Quoth he , Juge G [ r ] umbol with the read head ; She's my love , she's my life , she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her maidenhead . Then Sir John Cockle , the King call'd unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer , And gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly , And now take heed you steal no more of my deer : And once a quarter let's here have your view , And thus Sir John Cockle , I bid you adieu . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 