AND EPICAEDIUM On the Death of Her most Serene Majesty Henrietta Maria de Bourbon , QUEEN-MOTHER of ENGLAND , And Daughter to the late most Puissant King Henry le Grand , King of France and Navarre , etc Obiit 31 August , MDCLXIX . REader , draw near , and offer thy Divine Sighs here , as Incense at this Sacred Shrine , Which like some choice Regalio , keeps in trust The Royal Relics , and selected Dust Of such a QUEEN , as ( had Her days been spun Out by Her Deeds ) might have outliv'd the Sun , And forc'd the World's great Luminary t'have His Chaos , Clymacterick , with Her Grave . See! how pale Europ's Princes at the news Of Her Translation , have transform'd their hues , The Fields disrobed of their best array , Looking as dull , and discontent as They. The days shrunk shorter , in their shades retire , And Autumn seeming with the QUEEN t'expire , Bids Night , and Nature , hang the Universe With Black , as one Grand Hatchment o'er Her Hearse , Since less then Public Obsequies would be Piacular for such a QUEEN as She : A Queen to Kings , and Emperor's ally'd : Great HENRIES Daughter , and Blessed CHARLES his Bride ; Whose Blood with Bourbons have , whole Realms engrossed , And redeem'd more , then half the World hath lost . Yet did the Pungent Thistle interpose 'Twixt Her French Lilies , and our English Rose , Hail ! Queen of Cares , and Crosses ! to'st and hurl'd Through all the Changes of a giddy World , Where Thy fixed Mind maintain'd so calm a State , As crown'd Thee conqueror of Thy Self and Fate , Claiming the Garland , by Thy matchless Life Of a Dear Mother , and Indulgent Wife . And having gain'd it , meekly do'st lay down A transient Diadem , for a fixed Crown . With Allowance . AND EPICAEDIUM On the Death of Her most Serene Majesty Henrietta Maria de Bourbon , QUEEN-MOTHER of ENGLAND , And Daughter to the late most Puissant King Henry le Grand , King of France and Navarre , etc Obiit 31 August , MDCLXIX . REader , draw near , and offer thy Divine Sighs here , as Incense at this Sacred Shrine , Which like some choice Regalio , keeps in trust The Royal Relics , and selected Dust Of such a QUEEN , as ( had Her days been spun Out by Her Deeds ) might have outliv'd the Sun , And forc'd the World's great Luminary t'have His Chaos , Clymacterick , with Her Grave . See! how pale Europ's Princes at the news Of Her Translation , have transform'd their hues , The Fields disrobed of their best array , Looking as dull , and discontent as They. The days shrunk shorter , in their shades retire , And Autumn seeming with the QUEEN t'expire , Bids Night , and Nature , hang the Universe With Black , as one Grand Hatchment o'er Her Hearse , Since less then Public Obsequies would be Piacular for such a QUEEN as She : A Queen to Kings , and Emperor's ally'd : Great HENRIES Daughter , and Blessed CHARLES his Bride ; Whose Blood with Bourbons have , whole Realms engrossed , And redeem'd more , then half the World hath lost . Yet did the Pungent Thistle interpose 'Twixt Her French Lilies , and our English Rose , Hail ! Queen of Cares , and Crosses ! to'st and hurl'd Through all the Changes of a giddy World , Where Thy fixed Mind maintain'd so calm a State , As crown'd Thee conqueror of Thy Self and Fate , Claiming the Garland , by Thy matchless Life Of a Dear Mother , and Indulgent Wife . And having gain'd it , meekly do'st lay down A transient Diadem , for a fixed Crown . With Allowance . 