THE ELEGY On that Reverend Presbyter Mr. WILLIAM JENKINS , Who Finished his Obstinacy the 19th . of January in the Goal of Newgate , where are above Fourscore Dissenters , of almost as many of the several scattered Churches remaining . In a Dialogue between Despair and Comfort In Imitation of a former Elegy , in Dialogue between Faith and Sense . Seiz'd and suppressed by Authority . Despair . PRisons accursed ! and more accursed Law ! Why will you from the fainting Brothers draw More mournful Notes , and from their Eyes more Tears , Than all the Blood of almost twenty Years , Which their Reforming pious Swords ere drew , When the new Israel the Philistian Thousands slew ? Comfort . Leave Murm'ring : his freed Soul has found Relief From Two Confinements , both his Equal Grief ; Call'd by his great and potent Master's down From a loath'd Hierarchy , and hated Crown . Weep for thy self , for he's for Bliss design'd , Leaving a Toryfied cursed World behind . Despair . Lament I must and will in such a strain , Shall wake even Noll and Bradshaw's Ghost again ; I will roar out , and with a Voice so shrill , As even great TONYES mighty Court shall fill : I'll call the Furies up , and summon all Our aiding Friends below t'avenge his Fallen . Comfort . Weep not ; in Jail he drew his latest Breath , And Justice self's a Tyrant in his Death . Great Charles his barbarous and lawless Doom Was Good and Just ; but if even Law presume , Nay after a whole Age of Mercy , come To touch the suff'ring Saint , 'tis MARTYRDOM ; Nor shall we want those Trumpets to declare , How Room and Hell 'gainst Truth and Heav'n make War. Despair . O that my Head were Waters , for a Shower Of Tears as large as fell that cursed Hour , When Keeling's Sacramental Silence broke , Or Burnett in the dying Russell spoke ! Remembrance of our Dear Republic Reign , And the old politic Game reviv'd in vain ; And this dear Champion laid in Honours Bed , Calls all the Brine our Bloodshot Eyes can shed . Comfort . Forbear this dull Mistake ; thy fruitless Cries Bespeak Impatience : 'tis but Jenkins dies ; His transmigrated Spirit stays , you know , To animate the Brothers Saints below . His Death to us should but new Life afford , Warm'd with th'old Glory , with th'old conquering Sword , To fight the famous Battles of the Lord . Despair . Ah but he's gone ! That word more Terror brings , Than the old Ax that cut the Throat of KINGS : When Monarchs bleed , the Stroke's not worth a Tear ; But here our Loss does darker Mourning wear . He's gone , who almost six and forty Years , Preach'd up the Good OLD CAUSE in Sighs and Tears : That Saint who in the Days of Reformation , By his long painful Gospel-propagation , So many Hearts , so many Hands could bring , To raise the glorious Scaffold of a King : He whose blessed Labours could thus far prevail , Finished his Testimony in a Jail . Comfort . Cease Exclamations ; tho' his Raze is run , Dying before the finished Work was done , By Popish Noise and pious Oats begun . Still constant in adhering to th' Intrigue , Of th' ever blessed Associating League . His pitied and untimely Fate but draws Thousands of new made Converts to the Cause . Dying in Jail , he loudly Preaches more , More than in all the Tubs he thumpt before . Despair . If gasping Anarchy endures such Rubs , When Cedars fallen , what will become of Shrubs ? How shall the faintness of a strength so weak , The Gown and Mitres Long-loath'd Union break . In Jenkins speechless Tongue does silenc'dly , A greater piece of Kirk Artillery , 'Gainst Tory Laws , Crown'd Heads , and Prelate Loons , Than College Flails , and Rumbold's Musquetoons . Comfort . No , we'll not fear and overthrow or harm , While Antichrist and Poperies long-tried charm Shall raise us Bulwarks . Who can Leaders want , Under the Bannors of the Covenant ? For tho' grim Death does home some servants call , That Charm shall conjure strength to conquer all . Despair . But o ! what cursed Infatuation broke Justice and Laws long sleep , thus to provoke The Royal Frowns to raise this fatal stroke ? See trembling Sion shakes . Can it be hoped The Kirk can stand when it is thus unprop'd ? When thus our Cornerstone to Fate must shrink , Ah! how my troubled Soul's amaz'd to think , How the whole fainting tottering Pile will sink . Comfort . No , All must die . In dust our Prophet see : Nought but our Mighty Cause so strong can be , As to claim Patents t'Immortality . When the've done all , let Law and Power still frown Like the dissected Snake , crush'd and run down , We'll re-cement to sting the Church and Crown . Could Peter thrice his Sovereign Lord deny ? Our glorious Cause that Spirit shall supply , As shall three thousand times our King's defy . Despair . But o ! the heavy Law's a blow too soar When even INDULGENCE was no less before , What's TOLERATION without Sovereign power . The Kirk Dominion lost , and King restored , Was a sad stroke to'th Servants of the Lord . When once the Pagan Organs play'd , too soon All our Spiritual Hymns were out of tune . Comfort . There was a Time WE exercis'd the Rod O're Heathen Strafford , Laud and CHARLES , when GOD WITH US the Beatific Rump empowr'd : And heavenly Love in Royal Gore was showr'd . That dear remembrance mitigates our crosses , While future hope shall ease our present losses . Despair . My Eyes must vent my grief upon his Hearse , And weep in earnest , tho' I weep in Verse , When Absalom died , a Royal Tear was shed , And with great Charles and Innate Mercy bred , Mourns even to take a forfeit Traitors Head. So must I take a privilege to mourn , A Shimei or Achitophel t'his Urn. Comfort . Dry up thy Tears , for whom thou mourn'st is blessed , In Death he meets the Whigs long Stranger REST . Tho' turbulent against the Royal Will , The Grave has laid the restless Engine still . In Patience wait ; our rip'ning Plots attend , To mount the Cause , and Righted Kirk defend . ACROSTICK . Well now e'n Heav'nwards let thy Soul repair , If thou art sure that no Lawn Sleeves are there , Look to it Jenkins , for 'tis worth thy Care . Lawn Sleeves 'tis certain no small power have show'd , In keeping thee from Church , if not from God : And more than 20 mourning years o're-past , Mitre and Surplice broke thy heart at last . Jn the old Days , the Blessed Directory , Egypt's dear Flesh-pot , was thy Pride and Glory : Now with the Liturgies long Manna tired , Kecking to peuck th' ore-straining Saint expired . In Covenants and Holy Leagues long tied , No longer could the nauseous Taste abide , So in a kind of a Scotch Qualm he died . Sold by Walter Davis in Amen-Corner , 1685. THE ELEGY On that Reverend Presbyter Mr. WILLIAM JENKINS , Who Finished his Obstinacy the 19th . of January in the Goal of Newgate , where are above Fourscore Dissenters , of almost as many of the several scattered Churches remaining . In a Dialogue between Despair and Comfort In Imitation of a former Elegy , in Dialogue between Faith and Sense . Seiz'd and suppressed by Authority . Despair . PRisons accursed ! and more accursed Law ! Why will you from the fainting Brothers draw More mournful Notes , and from their Eyes more Tears , Than all the Blood of almost twenty Years , Which their Reforming pious Swords ere drew , When the new Israel the Philistian Thousands slew ? Comfort . Leave Murm'ring : his freed Soul has found Relief From Two Confinements , both his Equal Grief ; Call'd by his great and potent Master's down From a loath'd Hierarchy , and hated Crown . Weep for thy self , for he's for Bliss design'd , Leaving a Toryfied cursed World behind . Despair . Lament I must and will in such a strain , Shall wake even Noll and Bradshaw's Ghost again ; I will roar out , and with a Voice so shrill , As even great TONYES mighty Court shall fill : I'll call the Furies up , and summon all Our aiding Friends below t'avenge his Fallen . Comfort . Weep not ; in Jail he drew his latest Breath , And Justice self's a Tyrant in his Death . Great Charles his barbarous and lawless Doom Was Good and Just ; but if even Law presume , Nay after a whole Age of Mercy , come To touch the suff'ring Saint , 'tis MARTYRDOM ; Nor shall we want those Trumpets to declare , How Room and Hell 'gainst Truth and Heav'n make War. Despair . O that my Head were Waters , for a Shower Of Tears as large as fell that cursed Hour , When Keeling's Sacramental Silence broke , Or Burnett in the dying Russell spoke ! Remembrance of our Dear Republic Reign , And the old politic Game reviv'd in vain ; And this dear Champion laid in Honours Bed , Calls all the Brine our Bloodshot Eyes can shed . Comfort . Forbear this dull Mistake ; thy fruitless Cries Bespeak Impatience : 'tis but Jenkins dies ; His transmigrated Spirit stays , you know , To animate the Brothers Saints below . His Death to us should but new Life afford , Warm'd with th'old Glory , with th'old conquering Sword , To fight the famous Battles of the Lord . Despair . Ah but he's gone ! That word more Terror brings , Than the old Ax that cut the Throat of KINGS : When Monarchs bleed , the Stroke's not worth a Tear ; But here our Loss does darker Mourning wear . He's gone , who almost six and forty Years , Preach'd up the Good OLD CAUSE in Sighs and Tears : That Saint who in the Days of Reformation , By his long painful Gospel-propagation , So many Hearts , so many Hands could bring , To raise the glorious Scaffold of a King : He whose blessed Labours could thus far prevail , Finished his Testimony in a Jail . Comfort . Cease Exclamations ; tho' his Raze is run , Dying before the finished Work was done , By Popish Noise and pious Oats begun . Still constant in adhering to th' Intrigue , Of th' ever blessed Associating League . His pitied and untimely Fate but draws Thousands of new made Converts to the Cause . Dying in Jail , he loudly Preaches more , More than in all the Tubs he thumpt before . Despair . If gasping Anarchy endures such Rubs , When Cedars fallen , what will become of Shrubs ? How shall the faintness of a strength so weak , The Gown and Mitres Long-loath'd Union break . In Jenkins speechless Tongue does silenc'dly , A greater piece of Kirk Artillery , 'Gainst Tory Laws , Crown'd Heads , and Prelate Loons , Than College Flails , and Rumbold's Musquetoons . Comfort . No , we'll not fear and overthrow or harm , While Antichrist and Poperies long-tried charm Shall raise us Bulwarks . Who can Leaders want , Under the Bannors of the Covenant ? For tho' grim Death does home some servants call , That Charm shall conjure strength to conquer all . Despair . But o ! what cursed Infatuation broke Justice and Laws long sleep , thus to provoke The Royal Frowns to raise this fatal stroke ? See trembling Sion shakes . Can it be hoped The Kirk can stand when it is thus unprop'd ? When thus our Cornerstone to Fate must shrink , Ah! how my troubled Soul's amaz'd to think , How the whole fainting tottering Pile will sink . Comfort . No , All must die . In dust our Prophet see : Nought but our Mighty Cause so strong can be , As to claim Patents t'Immortality . When the've done all , let Law and Power still frown Like the dissected Snake , crush'd and run down , We'll re-cement to sting the Church and Crown . Could Peter thrice his Sovereign Lord deny ? Our glorious Cause that Spirit shall supply , As shall three thousand times our King's defy . Despair . But o ! the heavy Law's a blow too soar When even INDULGENCE was no less before , What's TOLERATION without Sovereign power . The Kirk Dominion lost , and King restored , Was a sad stroke to'th Servants of the Lord . When once the Pagan Organs play'd , too soon All our Spiritual Hymns were out of tune . Comfort . There was a Time WE exercis'd the Rod O're Heathen Strafford , Laud and CHARLES , when GOD WITH US the Beatific Rump empowr'd : And heavenly Love in Royal Gore was showr'd . That dear remembrance mitigates our crosses , While future hope shall ease our present losses . Despair . My Eyes must vent my grief upon his Hearse , And weep in earnest , tho' I weep in Verse , When Absalom died , a Royal Tear was shed , And with great Charles and Innate Mercy bred , Mourns even to take a forfeit Traitors Head. So must I take a privilege to mourn , A Shimei or Achitophel t'his Urn. Comfort . Dry up thy Tears , for whom thou mourn'st is blessed , In Death he meets the Whigs long Stranger REST . Tho' turbulent against the Royal Will , The Grave has laid the restless Engine still . In Patience wait ; our rip'ning Plots attend , To mount the Cause , and Righted Kirk defend . ACROSTICK . Well now e'n Heav'nwards let thy Soul repair , If thou art sure that no Lawn Sleeves are there , Look to it Jenkins , for 'tis worth thy Care . Lawn Sleeves 'tis certain no small power have show'd , In keeping thee from Church , if not from God : And more than 20 mourning years o're-past , Mitre and Surplice broke thy heart at last . Jn the old Days , the Blessed Directory , Egypt's dear Flesh-pot , was thy Pride and Glory : Now with the Liturgies long Manna tired , Kecking to peuck th' ore-straining Saint expired . In Covenants and Holy Leagues long tied , No longer could the nauseous Taste abide , So in a kind of a Scotch Qualm he died . Sold by Walter Davis in Amen-Corner , 1685. 