AND ELEGIE Upon the much lamented Death of that Noble , and Valiant Commander ; the Right honourable the Earl of TIVEOT , Governor of Tangiers . Slave by the Moors . CAn TIVEOT , Britain's glorious victim , die , And no Vein bleed with a kind symphathie ? Shall one presumptuous * Ballad-scratching Pen Fame the worst Barred , to shame the best of men ? Let indignation once a Muse create ; A rage , may mourn , if not revenge his fate : Whose active soul has not deserv'd to have A double silence of his Name , and Grave . * And Elegy with Pictures . Did the stupendious news , like lightning , blast Our Wits , from Trances to break forth at last ? Never did Echo strike so many dumb Since that , first howl'd out the Kings Martyrdom ! Thou Africk Monster , whose unbridled shame In scorn has borrowed our grand * Rebell's Name ; Just heaven thy sanguine humour satiate ; Oh mayest thou with his Name adopt his Fate : How canst thou offer , ( knowing where he lies ) To his Triangular shrine a sacrifice ? The blood , flesh , bones , sow'd in that dismal place In time , shall bring forth a Cadmean raze Of English Giants , whose high gallantry Gayland shall combat , not the gods , but thee . 'Tis not thy Spirit , but thy Spite , w' abhor : Villain , thou dost not fight , but massacre . * Gay - land calls himself Cromwel . the cruel Serpents , whose low cowardice Lurks in the woods and grass , but dares not hiss 'Gainst a just foe ; save when your Treachery can Oppose a thousand to each single man ! So Butchers conquer feeble lambs , and thus Our Cromwel play'd the Cannibal with us . No Dodonaean grove ? no Vocal tree T' Alarm this miscreant , lawless enemy ? Henceforth may every Tree , on hills or plains , Make gallows for Rebel-Africans : May Lyons , Panthers , and all nature's Evils Join in Battalion to destroy these Devils . The Combat would appear more equal , when Beasts fight with beasts , not beasts with civil men . No blade of grass grow near that fatal Wood , 'Till it be dung'd with Mauritanian blood . But let that sap , fell from the British oaks Assist next fight with sympathetic strokes ; Or rise in fiery Meteors , to annoy These Lyons whelps , both beast and den destroy . Vain Execrations , now brave Tiveot's lost ! Not to be ransom'd by all Nature's cos But Tiveot shall act still , his injur'd Ghost Shall Van and rear , and flank proud Gayland's Hos His spirits , ( though their soul be lodg'd in bliss ) Shall , by a happy Metempsychosis , Transfuse themselves into each Souldier's breast , And 'gainst the Moors in every heart contest . Tangiers her Confines shall extend , as far As Gayland dares appear , in peace , or war . If any Region lie without the world , ( As some dispute ) he shall be thither hurled . The Royal Mould , yet under-deck , shall rise Now Tiveot's Monument , once his Enterprise . Loud Cannon from the Forts shall issue shot Doubly inspir'd with flames , and Tiveot . Dunkirk his nearer glory shall advance , Whose strength drew out the very blood of France . [ By him confirm'd against her proudest force ; Was only equal to her conquering purse . ] Let's not the loss of that , but Tiveot weep ; Princes know best , both what to gain , and keep ; Dunkirk was a fair bride , but apt to jar ; Better divorce her , then espouse a War : But whither she belong to France , or Spain , Or by new Policy return again ; Tiveot thy Name shall there in garrison rest , Though not her Governor , yet her glorious guest . No Satyrs more the Scottish borders tread , Nor make a wanton Helicon of Tweed : No Barred , inveigh against that Northern climb , Unless you bring Cleveland's wit , with his rhyme . That very guilt the Royal party scourg'd , Was after by the blood of Royalists purg'd . If there remains yet any national spot , 'Tis now wip'd off by Scotland's Tiveot . Why should that soil , gave us a Raze of Kings , Be scorn'd by fools , as barren of good things . England , and Scotland , both to Tangiers fly , Let not your Tiveot unrevenged die ; Love whet your anger , and this whet your swords ; While both are quickened by persuasive words : First take up Tiveot's spirit , then his bones ; They'll prove as fruitful as Deucalion's stones . Now fight , now plant , and conquerors remain , 'Till Africa be Christian once again : That quadrant-Region never will be good , 'Till manur'd with this Renegado's blood . No wonder Gayland-Cromwel do's survive , Fate will not let a Cromwel hang alive . By JO . CROUCH Gent. London . Printed for Tho. Palmer , at the Crown in Westminster-Hall . 1664. AND ELEGIE Upon the much lamented Death of that Noble , and Valiant Commander ; the Right honourable the Earl of TIVEOT , Governor of Tangiers . Slave by the Moors . CAn TIVEOT , Britain's glorious victim , die , And no Vein bleed with a kind symphathie ? Shall one presumptuous * Ballad-scratching Pen Fame the worst Barred , to shame the best of men ? Let indignation once a Muse create ; A rage , may mourn , if not revenge his fate : Whose active soul has not deserv'd to have A double silence of his Name , and Grave . * And Elegy with Pictures . Did the stupendious news , like lightning , blast Our Wits , from Trances to break forth at last ? Never did Echo strike so many dumb Since that , first howl'd out the Kings Martyrdom ! Thou Africk Monster , whose unbridled shame In scorn has borrowed our grand * Rebell's Name ; Just heaven thy sanguine humour satiate ; Oh mayest thou with his Name adopt his Fate : How canst thou offer , ( knowing where he lies ) To his Triangular shrine a sacrifice ? The blood , flesh , bones , sow'd in that dismal place In time , shall bring forth a Cadmean raze Of English Giants , whose high gallantry Gayland shall combat , not the gods , but thee . 'Tis not thy Spirit , but thy Spite , w' abhor : Villain , thou dost not fight , but massacre . * Gay - land calls himself Cromwel . the cruel Serpents , whose low cowardice Lurks in the woods and grass , but dares not hiss 'Gainst a just foe ; save when your Treachery can Oppose a thousand to each single man ! So Butchers conquer feeble lambs , and thus Our Cromwel play'd the Cannibal with us . No Dodonaean grove ? no Vocal tree T' Alarm this miscreant , lawless enemy ? Henceforth may every Tree , on hills or plains , Make gallows for Rebel-Africans : May Lyons , Panthers , and all nature's Evils Join in Battalion to destroy these Devils . The Combat would appear more equal , when Beasts fight with beasts , not beasts with civil men . No blade of grass grow near that fatal Wood , 'Till it be dung'd with Mauritanian blood . But let that sap , fell from the British oaks Assist next fight with sympathetic strokes ; Or rise in fiery Meteors , to annoy These Lyons whelps , both beast and den destroy . Vain Execrations , now brave Tiveot's lost ! Not to be ransom'd by all Nature's cos But Tiveot shall act still , his injur'd Ghost Shall Van and rear , and flank proud Gayland's Hos His spirits , ( though their soul be lodg'd in bliss ) Shall , by a happy Metempsychosis , Transfuse themselves into each Souldier's breast , And 'gainst the Moors in every heart contest . Tangiers her Confines shall extend , as far As Gayland dares appear , in peace , or war . If any Region lie without the world , ( As some dispute ) he shall be thither hurled . The Royal Mould , yet under-deck , shall rise Now Tiveot's Monument , once his Enterprise . Loud Cannon from the Forts shall issue shot Doubly inspir'd with flames , and Tiveot . Dunkirk his nearer glory shall advance , Whose strength drew out the very blood of France . [ By him confirm'd against her proudest force ; Was only equal to her conquering purse . ] Let's not the loss of that , but Tiveot weep ; Princes know best , both what to gain , and keep ; Dunkirk was a fair bride , but apt to jar ; Better divorce her , then espouse a War : But whither she belong to France , or Spain , Or by new Policy return again ; Tiveot thy Name shall there in garrison rest , Though not her Governor , yet her glorious guest . No Satyrs more the Scottish borders tread , Nor make a wanton Helicon of Tweed : No Barred , inveigh against that Northern climb , Unless you bring Cleveland's wit , with his rhyme . That very guilt the Royal party scourg'd , Was after by the blood of Royalists purg'd . If there remains yet any national spot , 'Tis now wip'd off by Scotland's Tiveot . Why should that soil , gave us a Raze of Kings , Be scorn'd by fools , as barren of good things . England , and Scotland , both to Tangiers fly , Let not your Tiveot unrevenged die ; Love whet your anger , and this whet your swords ; While both are quickened by persuasive words : First take up Tiveot's spirit , then his bones ; They'll prove as fruitful as Deucalion's stones . Now fight , now plant , and conquerors remain , 'Till Africa be Christian once again : That quadrant-Region never will be good , 'Till manur'd with this Renegado's blood . No wonder Gayland-Cromwel do's survive , Fate will not let a Cromwel hang alive . By JO . CROUCH Gent. London . Printed for Tho. Palmer , at the Crown in Westminster-Hall . 1664. 