AND ELEGY , Upon the DEATH of Monsieur St. RUTH THE French King's General in IRELAND , Who was Kill'd at the Battle of Agrhim , July 12. 1691. By Teague Oh Divelly Chaplain in Ordinary to the Irish Army . ST . Ruth is Dead ! is Dead ! Yes , by my Shoul , And we will make the Irish Cry and Houl ; We'll Houl so loud , and make so great a doe , The Devils shall wonder at our Hubbaboo . By all the Shaints in Heaven , Earth , Sea and Hell , I can no l [ on ] her my Sad Griefs conceal ; But all the World in Blubb'ring Tears must know , How many Sighs to Dear St. Ruth I owe : Dear Shoul ( Plague take thee ) Prithee why did'st Die , And go to Heaven without my Company ? Faith 'twas unkindly done , and like and Ass , I fear Shaint Peter won't accept thy Pass ; He's and Old Surly Shaint , Dear Joy , and knows Cuckows from Nightingales , and Doves from Crows . With me thou would'st not have been disappointed , I and Shaint Peter have been long acquainted ; If thou'rt in Hell , and dost not fare no better , Prithee Joy be so kind and send a Letter : Merits like thine doe surely Merit Glory , At best I'll fancy thou'rt in Purgatory ; I in those Humhums have a many Friends , Who love me dearly for their proper ends : There they may lie like poor contented Asses , Unless their Friends on Earth will pay for Masses . And , a Plague take 'em , they are all so poor , They hardly find me Pence to keep my Whore : Tell 'em they must not abs'lutely Despair , I now and then afford 'em a short Prayer ; But 'tis , Shaint Patrick knows , 'tis very true , When I have very little else to do . But Joy , I'll put the Shaints in mind of thee , They will not sure be Deaf Dear Crumb a Cree . But above all the num'rous Shaints that be , The Female Shaints were best belov'd by thee , For when all day thou hadst in Bloodshed been in , I know at night thou would'st be Folding Linnin ; The Female Shaints shall get thee from that Hell-house , Like Maids who Marry Fellows under Gallows . Matters , Dear Joy , have gone but very ill , Since Saucy Bullet made on thee the Kill : The English Heretics now stir their Stumps , And boldly vapour they have turn'd up Trumps : Wer't thou alive things thus would not be standing , Thoud'st Cut their Throats t' inform their Understanding ; With Hugonots in France thou took'st great pains , T' instruct their Minds by knocking out their Brains ; The French will surely at a Nonplus be , Losing Great Lovois , and much Greater Thee ; You both did France's Glory long uphold , You by your Sword , and t' other by his Gold . But all things now are , must come to sad mishap , Children must Starve who want both Nurse and Pap. Who ! By my Shoul Drums beatrice , and by my Truth The Heretics are come ---- Good night St. Ruth . His EPITAPH . HEre lies the Corpse of Bold St. Ruth , A Champion for the Roman Truth ; He was , let Folks say what they list , As Tite a Lad as ever Pist , And many did to Faith Convert , By Halters and Dragooning Art ; But now to Lonesome Shades he's gone , And left us all Poor Teagues alone . But yet 'tis fear'd his boisterous Gallick Fury , Will make that Hell which was but Purgatory . London , Printed for W. Rayner , 1691. AND ELEGY , Upon the DEATH of Monsieur St. RUTH THE French King's General in IRELAND , Who was Kill'd at the Battle of Agrhim , July 12. 1691. By Teague Oh Divelly Chaplain in Ordinary to the Irish Army . ST . Ruth is Dead ! is Dead ! Yes , by my Shoul , And we will make the Irish Cry and Houl ; We'll Houl so loud , and make so great a doe , The Devils shall wonder at our Hubbaboo . By all the Shaints in Heaven , Earth , Sea and Hell , I can no l [ on ] her my Sad Griefs conceal ; But all the World in Blubb'ring Tears must know , How many Sighs to Dear St. Ruth I owe : Dear Shoul ( Plague take thee ) Prithee why did'st Die , And go to Heaven without my Company ? Faith 'twas unkindly done , and like and Ass , I fear Shaint Peter won't accept thy Pass ; He's and Old Surly Shaint , Dear Joy , and knows Cuckows from Nightingales , and Doves from Crows . With me thou would'st not have been disappointed , I and Shaint Peter have been long acquainted ; If thou'rt in Hell , and dost not fare no better , Prithee Joy be so kind and send a Letter : Merits like thine doe surely Merit Glory , At best I'll fancy thou'rt in Purgatory ; I in those Humhums have a many Friends , Who love me dearly for their proper ends : There they may lie like poor contented Asses , Unless their Friends on Earth will pay for Masses . And , a Plague take 'em , they are all so poor , They hardly find me Pence to keep my Whore : Tell 'em they must not abs'lutely Despair , I now and then afford 'em a short Prayer ; But 'tis , Shaint Patrick knows , 'tis very true , When I have very little else to do . But Joy , I'll put the Shaints in mind of thee , They will not sure be Deaf Dear Crumb a Cree . But above all the num'rous Shaints that be , The Female Shaints were best belov'd by thee , For when all day thou hadst in Bloodshed been in , I know at night thou would'st be Folding Linnin ; The Female Shaints shall get thee from that Hell-house , Like Maids who Marry Fellows under Gallows . Matters , Dear Joy , have gone but very ill , Since Saucy Bullet made on thee the Kill : The English Heretics now stir their Stumps , And boldly vapour they have turn'd up Trumps : Wer't thou alive things thus would not be standing , Thoud'st Cut their Throats t' inform their Understanding ; With Hugonots in France thou took'st great pains , T' instruct their Minds by knocking out their Brains ; The French will surely at a Nonplus be , Losing Great Lovois , and much Greater Thee ; You both did France's Glory long uphold , You by your Sword , and t' other by his Gold . But all things now are , must come to sad mishap , Children must Starve who want both Nurse and Pap. Who ! By my Shoul Drums beatrice , and by my Truth The Heretics are come ---- Good night St. Ruth . His EPITAPH . HEre lies the Corpse of Bold St. Ruth , A Champion for the Roman Truth ; He was , let Folks say what they list , As Tite a Lad as ever Pist , And many did to Faith Convert , By Halters and Dragooning Art ; But now to Lonesome Shades he's gone , And left us all Poor Teagues alone . But yet 'tis fear'd his boisterous Gallick Fury , Will make that Hell which was but Purgatory . London , Printed for W. Rayner , 1691. 