AND ELEGY Upon the Death of the Famous Dr. JOHN PARTRIDGD , The Great Astrologer , who departed this Life ( according to Esq ; Biggerstaff's Pre - diction ) this Morning between the Hours of One and Two a Clock , being the 29th of March , at his House near Covent-Garden . O Partridge ! Art thou gone , and we in Tears ? Hide all your Heads , you little Twinkling Stars : You Glorious Planets in your Houses Sleep ; And 'stead of Light , in Gentle showers Weep . Partridge's Knowledge in those Arts does Crave The Sun it self a Mourner at his Grave : Phoebus shou'd by the Milky Way descend , And Luna , and the Signs , should on his Hearse attend . Weep all the Suburb Dams that knew his Worth , And let your Trebles set his Praises forth : By him you were resolv'd of many a Doubt , And how the Circling Year would roll about ; When it would Freeze or Thaw , when Snow or Rain , When Storms would Blow , or when be Eair again . From whence you might unerring Methods take , Which Seasons were the best to Brew or Bake ; For Physic , when the prop'rest Times were known , When good to Bleed , and when to let's alone ; Nay , even he could set apart the Day , On which 'twas best to Work , or best to play . In Business too , you by his Schemes might tell Which were the Luckiest Days to Buy or Fell : When proper Seasons wou'd for pleasure come , Or when to go Abroad , or stay at Home . Maids , Bachelors , from him , Instruction had , Which were good Days to Marry on , which bade ; When they should Settle , where the House shou'd stand , And whither best to Trade by Sea or Land : Farmers from him learned how to Sow and Reap , And when to make their Butter Dear or Cheap ; To Prune their Hedges , or to Weed their Corn , Or when to get to get the Crop into the Barn . He taught old Matrons to be Nutses soon , Observing but the Changes of the Moon ; How they might keep their Families from Harms , When Cut their Children's Hair , or kill the Worms . Nor this alone , he soar'd at higher Things , Foretelling Earthquakes , or the Death of Kings . Of Battles he could tell you to a Day , When some wou'd Fight , and others run away . From Popish Dangers he forewarn'd the State , And always stabb'd the Jacks killing Hate . But still ------ Alas , one Error in his Skill was Shown , He could tell others Fate , but not his own : While he is Fam'd for Knowledge in the Stars , One Calculates his Death , and takes him unawares . So to Great Caesar , dauntless , undismay'd , Beware the Ides of March the Flamin said : As that in Rome's , this shall our Kalends Grace , And be Red-Letter'd in same proper Place . THE EPITAPH . HEre lies , ( or will do , in a little time , ) A Fam'd Astrologer of this our Climb , Whose spite of his Acquaintance with the Stars , It seems , knew nothing of his own Affairs , Until the Pen of some unlucky Brother ; Confounded one Perdiction , by another . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1708. AND ELEGY Upon the Death of the Famous Dr. JOHN PARTRIDGD , The Great Astrologer , who departed this Life ( according to Esq ; Biggerstaff's Pre - diction ) this Morning between the Hours of One and Two a Clock , being the 29th of March , at his House near Covent-Garden . O Partridge ! Art thou gone , and we in Tears ? Hide all your Heads , you little Twinkling Stars : You Glorious Planets in your Houses Sleep ; And 'stead of Light , in Gentle showers Weep . Partridge's Knowledge in those Arts does Crave The Sun it self a Mourner at his Grave : Phoebus shou'd by the Milky Way descend , And Luna , and the Signs , should on his Hearse attend . Weep all the Suburb Dams that knew his Worth , And let your Trebles set his Praises forth : By him you were resolv'd of many a Doubt , And how the Circling Year would roll about ; When it would Freeze or Thaw , when Snow or Rain , When Storms would Blow , or when be Eair again . From whence you might unerring Methods take , Which Seasons were the best to Brew or Bake ; For Physic , when the prop'rest Times were known , When good to Bleed , and when to let's alone ; Nay , even he could set apart the Day , On which 'twas best to Work , or best to play . In Business too , you by his Schemes might tell Which were the Luckiest Days to Buy or Fell : When proper Seasons wou'd for pleasure come , Or when to go Abroad , or stay at Home . Maids , Bachelors , from him , Instruction had , Which were good Days to Marry on , which bade ; When they should Settle , where the House shou'd stand , And whither best to Trade by Sea or Land : Farmers from him learned how to Sow and Reap , And when to make their Butter Dear or Cheap ; To Prune their Hedges , or to Weed their Corn , Or when to get to get the Crop into the Barn . He taught old Matrons to be Nutses soon , Observing but the Changes of the Moon ; How they might keep their Families from Harms , When Cut their Children's Hair , or kill the Worms . Nor this alone , he soar'd at higher Things , Foretelling Earthquakes , or the Death of Kings . Of Battles he could tell you to a Day , When some wou'd Fight , and others run away . From Popish Dangers he forewarn'd the State , And always stabb'd the Jacks killing Hate . But still ------ Alas , one Error in his Skill was Shown , He could tell others Fate , but not his own : While he is Fam'd for Knowledge in the Stars , One Calculates his Death , and takes him unawares . So to Great Caesar , dauntless , undismay'd , Beware the Ides of March the Flamin said : As that in Rome's , this shall our Kalends Grace , And be Red-Letter'd in same proper Place . THE EPITAPH . HEre lies , ( or will do , in a little time , ) A Fam'd Astrologer of this our Climb , Whose spite of his Acquaintance with the Stars , It seems , knew nothing of his own Affairs , Until the Pen of some unlucky Brother ; Confounded one Perdiction , by another . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1708. 