A DIALOGUE Between DEATH AND Doctor ROBERT WYLD , Who Died lately of and APOPLEXY . Death . NO Roaring Christmas shalt Thou keep , now Roar Bold Wit ! Wyld . Oh! o ! Hhohh ! Well! I'le cry no more , Alas , it is for Thee , not Me , to Roar . A Deadly Blow ! But where's thy Sting ? There lies The King of Terrors cow'd out ! In Sacrifice ( And Eucharist ) Lord , take this Soul to Thee , By Death Thou hast slave Death , Redeemed Me. Grave , take the Carcase , at the reck'ning Day With Interest the Principal repay . Take Worms meat ( they'l scarce lick the punched Face , ) Bring't up in Glory , though sown in Disgrace , In never-fading Beauty it shall rise , And be transplanted int' yond Paradise . ) They'l Dig the Kernels out ( the Eyes ) Dig on ! One Breakfast makes the Head a Skeleton . They'l tease the Hands , and Toes , and Paunch ( their Fence ) Intolerable Pains , have numb'd all Sense . 'Twas not Seer Sheldon , when he turn'd Me out , Did Me perplex ; no , it was Bishop Gout . Death did me vex and terrify much less , I'le now be gone out of his Diocese . I con you TO [ h ] anks . Bish. Gout proceeded on , You grante [ worser ] me a Prohibition . Adieu , my Lord . Death . I'm but a Pursuivant , To th' Court you to conduct , by Heaven sent . Wyld . I liv'd a Martyr all my Days , now I , In flaming Spices , like a Phoenix , Dy. My Heart bleeds for the Church and State , I faint , Take of my Cordial , Surviving Saint . Proud Babel Reels , it Totters , it will Fallen , As sure as Lambeth stands against White-Hall . Come Seraphims , and bear this Soul above , Impatient to see her Vines , her Love . One Stroke , with all the Clusters , Lop'd the Vine , One chop'd off Love . Would , would ! their Lot is Mine . They were so quick at Work , their Master's Voice Soon call'd them off ; Into your Master's Joys . More Blessed Sighed I'le see , ( 'Twill satisfy ) The Glorious , Ever-blessed Trinity . Whom I Ador'd and Lov'd sometime , Him I For ev'r will Love , Admire , and Glorify ; So , so , I'll spend a Blessed Eternity , In everlasting Love , Delights and Joy . Hal -- Le -- Lu -- Jah . Alas ! Poor Scholar , hast thou felt the Stroke Of matchless Death ? Are all thine Heartstrings broke ? Who'l sing thine Iter Empyraeum ? I After [ tO ] hy Blood-suck send this Hue and Cry . Great Wyld is slave ! Slave ! Let this Shriek fly round Till Hills , and Dales , and Rocks , and Shores rebound , Unto Pale Pyrene , and from thence go on Over Parnassus unto Helicon . Raise up the sluggish Sisters , Three times Three , In Lamentations Drop one Elegy . Streams Ever-flowing from each Muses Eye May Spring a Fountain , now their Well is Dry . Tagus and Ganges will astonish'd be , And all th' Antipodes as well as We . Who slew the Muses Darling , of Mankind The Choice Delights ? Search out until you find . Who was't kill'd the Divine ? Who slew the Poet ? Echo . Eat ! What Nimble Chaps , what Cormorant was he Could eat up Wild ? Might not he poyson'd be ? Who poyson'd Wild ? Wakeman with all his Main Could not get Sacred Charles out of his Wain . He pawn'd his Skill , though Justice might not spy , A Plaster to the Fist affects the Eye . 'Twas Death ( that Jesuit ) so greedy grown It chapt up Robert , and let George alone . Rome's Emissary Leeches , so fine bred , Won't touch Posteriors , they chap at th' Head. AND EPITAPH . HEre lies Poor Robin , most enriched one With Nature's Dowry , Graces large Portion . Nature brought Reason , Prudence , Eloquence , And Magnanimity , Munificence , Courage and Constancy , and Matchless Wit . Grace Him adorn'd with Faith , and Hope , and Love , That Saints below he might excel , above With Patience , in none admired more ; Nature and Grace on him laid out their Store . Rome's Plot to strangle Justice in Godfrey , Hell's was ; in Wild , to choke Divinity . Here lies the Poet , here lies Poetry , Here's the Divine , here lies Divinity . Ah Fools ! and inexhausted Spring does Lie , Justice in Charles , in God , Theology . London , Printed in the Year 1679. A DIALOGUE Between DEATH AND Doctor ROBERT WYLD , Who Died lately of and APOPLEXY . Death . NO Roaring Christmas shalt Thou keep , now Roar Bold Wit ! Wyld . Oh! o ! Hhohh ! Well! I'le cry no more , Alas , it is for Thee , not Me , to Roar . A Deadly Blow ! But where's thy Sting ? There lies The King of Terrors cow'd out ! In Sacrifice ( And Eucharist ) Lord , take this Soul to Thee , By Death Thou hast slave Death , Redeemed Me. Grave , take the Carcase , at the reck'ning Day With Interest the Principal repay . Take Worms meat ( they'l scarce lick the punched Face , ) Bring't up in Glory , though sown in Disgrace , In never-fading Beauty it shall rise , And be transplanted int' yond Paradise . ) They'l Dig the Kernels out ( the Eyes ) Dig on ! One Breakfast makes the Head a Skeleton . They'l tease the Hands , and Toes , and Paunch ( their Fence ) Intolerable Pains , have numb'd all Sense . 'Twas not Seer Sheldon , when he turn'd Me out , Did Me perplex ; no , it was Bishop Gout . Death did me vex and terrify much less , I'le now be gone out of his Diocese . I con you TO [ h ] anks . Bish. Gout proceeded on , You grante [ worser ] me a Prohibition . Adieu , my Lord . Death . I'm but a Pursuivant , To th' Court you to conduct , by Heaven sent . Wyld . I liv'd a Martyr all my Days , now I , In flaming Spices , like a Phoenix , Dy. My Heart bleeds for the Church and State , I faint , Take of my Cordial , Surviving Saint . Proud Babel Reels , it Totters , it will Fallen , As sure as Lambeth stands against White-Hall . Come Seraphims , and bear this Soul above , Impatient to see her Vines , her Love . One Stroke , with all the Clusters , Lop'd the Vine , One chop'd off Love . Would , would ! their Lot is Mine . They were so quick at Work , their Master's Voice Soon call'd them off ; Into your Master's Joys . More Blessed Sighed I'le see , ( 'Twill satisfy ) The Glorious , Ever-blessed Trinity . Whom I Ador'd and Lov'd sometime , Him I For ev'r will Love , Admire , and Glorify ; So , so , I'll spend a Blessed Eternity , In everlasting Love , Delights and Joy . Hal -- Le -- Lu -- Jah . Alas ! Poor Scholar , hast thou felt the Stroke Of matchless Death ? Are all thine Heartstrings broke ? Who'l sing thine Iter Empyraeum ? I After [ tO ] hy Blood-suck send this Hue and Cry . Great Wyld is slave ! Slave ! Let this Shriek fly round Till Hills , and Dales , and Rocks , and Shores rebound , Unto Pale Pyrene , and from thence go on Over Parnassus unto Helicon . Raise up the sluggish Sisters , Three times Three , In Lamentations Drop one Elegy . Streams Ever-flowing from each Muses Eye May Spring a Fountain , now their Well is Dry . Tagus and Ganges will astonish'd be , And all th' Antipodes as well as We . Who slew the Muses Darling , of Mankind The Choice Delights ? Search out until you find . Who was't kill'd the Divine ? Who slew the Poet ? Echo . Eat ! What Nimble Chaps , what Cormorant was he Could eat up Wild ? Might not he poyson'd be ? Who poyson'd Wild ? Wakeman with all his Main Could not get Sacred Charles out of his Wain . He pawn'd his Skill , though Justice might not spy , A Plaster to the Fist affects the Eye . 'Twas Death ( that Jesuit ) so greedy grown It chapt up Robert , and let George alone . Rome's Emissary Leeches , so fine bred , Won't touch Posteriors , they chap at th' Head. AND EPITAPH . HEre lies Poor Robin , most enriched one With Nature's Dowry , Graces large Portion . Nature brought Reason , Prudence , Eloquence , And Magnanimity , Munificence , Courage and Constancy , and Matchless Wit . Grace Him adorn'd with Faith , and Hope , and Love , That Saints below he might excel , above With Patience , in none admired more ; Nature and Grace on him laid out their Store . Rome's Plot to strangle Justice in Godfrey , Hell's was ; in Wild , to choke Divinity . Here lies the Poet , here lies Poetry , Here's the Divine , here lies Divinity . Ah Fools ! and inexhausted Spring does Lie , Justice in Charles , in God , Theology . London , Printed in the Year 1679. PRIDE's FALL : OR , A Warning for all English Women , by the Example of a strange Monster lately born in Germany , by a Merchant's proud Wife , at Geneva . Tune of , All you that love Goodfellows , etc ENgland's fair dainty dams , see here the fallen of pride , Wantonness leave in time , that God may be your guide : I was a Dutch-land frow , shining in beauty bright ; And a brave merchant's wife , in whom he took delight . All things I had at will , my heart could wish or crave ; My diet dainty fare , my garments rich and brave ; No wife in Germany , where I in pleasure dwell'd , For golden bravery my person so excell'd : My coaches richly wrought , and decked with pearl and gold , Carried me up and down , whereas my pleasure would : The earth I deem'd too base my feet to tread upon ; My blooming crimson cheeks felt neither wind nor sun . My beauty made me think myself and angel right , Framed of heavenly mould , and not and earthly might . For my soul's happiness , God's Holy Bible Book , I had my looking-glass , wherein I pleasure took . There was no fashion found , that might advance my pride , But in my looking-glass , my fancy soon espy'd Every vain foolish toy changes my wanton mind ; And they best pleased me that could new fashions find . Yet all these earthly joys yielded me small content , In that dame nature had ne'r a child to me sent , That makes my bears to bleed , for which offence to God , He hath most grievously scourged me with his rod : And in my tender womb , of so pure flesh and blood , Created he , strange to see , a most deformed brood ; That women of wanton pride may take example by , How they in fashions found , offend the Lord on high . When the babe came to light , and I brought to my bed , No cost was spar'd that night , to stand me in my stead ; My nurse's young and fair , fit for a royal queen , Gave all attendance there , as it was daily seen . Never had merchant's wife of ladies such a train , That came in gentle sort , at the hour of my pain : But when my swelling womb yielded up nature's due , Such a strange monster then , surely man never knew , For it affrighted so , all the whole company , That e'ry one said in heart , Vengeance now draws nigh . It had two faces strange , and two heads painted fair , On the brows curled locks , such as our wantons wear : One hand held right the shape of a fair looking-glass , In which I took delight , how my vain beauty was : Right the shape of a rod , scourging me for my since , The other seem'd to have , perfectly seen therein . These women's wantonness , and their vain foolish minds , Never contented are with that thing God assigns : Look to it London tames God keepeth plagues in store , And now the second part of this song shows more . Grief and care kills my heart , where God offended is , As the poor merchant's wife , did worldly comforts miss : Strange were the misery's that she so long endur'd , No case by women's help , could be as then procur'd : Hereupon speaks the child , with a voice fearfully , Mother , your wanton pride , brings this your misery : Let your life soon amend , or else the Mighty God , Will scourge your wantonness , with a more sharper rod . About his neck a flaunting ruff it had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue , seemly unto the eye : With laces long and broad , as now are women's bans , Thus heavy wanton pride first in God's anger stands . The breast was plated o're , as still the merchant's be , Now as lewd women wear , to hide adultery : Every part , every limb , had not true nature's frame , But to show to the world this my great since and shame : From the head to the foot , monster like was it born , Every part had the shape of fashions daily worn : On the feet pinked shoes , insteps had roses read , Which in silk now is us'd , so vainly are we led . Thus hath my flesh and blood . nourished now near my heart , Puts me in mind of since , and bids me now conver Oh let all women then , take heed of wanton pride , Angels have fallen from heaven and for that since have dy'd . No sooner brought to light was this fruit of my youth , But to the counsel-house it was brought for a truth : Where to the magistrates , in a most fearful sort , Began aloud to speak , and these words did repor I am a messenger , now sent from God on high , To bid you all repent , Christ's coming draws nigh . Repent you all with speed , this is a message sure , The world seems at and end , and cannot long endure . Pride is the prince of since , which is our chief delight . Mankind repent with speed , before the Lord does finite : This is my last adieu , rep [ e ] ntance soon provide . These were his latest words , and so the monster dy'd . Great was the fear of those , that these same speeches herd . God grant all christians may have their minds well prepar'd With true repentance , God's mercy to implore , That never womankind may bring such fruit forth more . And you fair English dams , that in pride do excel . This woeful misery , in your hearts print full wells Let not pride be your guide , for pride will have a fallen ; Maid and wife , let my life be warning to you all . LONDON : Printed for Tho. Thackeray , in Duck-lane , A.M. and W.O. PRIDE's FALLEN : OR , A Warning for all English Women , by the Example of a strange Monster lately born in Germany , by a Merchant's proud Wife , at Geneva . Tune of , All you that love Goodfellows , etc ENgland's fair dainty dams , see here the fallen of pride , Wantonness leave in time , that God may be your guide : I was a Dutch-land frow , shining in beauty bright ; And a brave merchant's wife , in whom he took delight . All things I had at will , my heart could wish or crave ; My diet dainty fare , my garments rich and brave ; No wife in Germany , where I in pleasure dwell'd , For golden bravery my person so excell'd : My coaches richly wrought , and decked with pearl and gold , Carried me up and down , whereas my pleasure would : The earth I deem'd too base my feet to tread upon ; My blooming crimson cheeks felt neither wind nor sun . My beauty made me think myself and angel right , Framed of heavenly mould , and not and earthly might . For my soul's happiness , God's Holy Bible Book , I had my looking-glass , wherein I pleasure took . There was no fashion found , that might advance my pride , But in my looking-glass , my fancy soon espy'd Every vain foolish toy changes my wanton mind ; And they best pleased me that could new fashions find . Yet all these earthly joys yielded me small content , In that dame nature had ne'r a child to me sent , That makes my bears to bleed , for which offence to God , He hath most grievously scourged me with his rod : And in my tender womb , of so pure flesh and blood , Created he , strange to see , a most deformed brood ; That women of wanton pride may take example by , How they in fashions found , offend the Lord on high . When the babe came to light , and I brought to my bed , No cost was spar'd that night , to stand me in my stead ; My nurse's young and fair , fit for a royal queen , Gave all attendance there , as it was daily seen . Never had merchant's wife of ladies such a train , That came in gentle sort , at the hour of my pain : But when my swelling womb yielded up nature's due , Such a strange monster then , surely man never knew , For it affrighted so , all the whole company , That e'ry one said in heart , Vengeance now draws nigh . It had two faces strange , and two heads painted fair , On the brows curled locks , such as our wantons wear : One hand held right the shape of a fair looking-glass , In which I took delight , how my vain beauty was : Right the shape of a rod , scourging me for my since , The other seem'd to have , perfectly seen therein . These women's wantonness , and their vain foolish minds , Never contented are with that thing God assigns : Look to it London tames God keepeth plagues in store , And now the second part of this song shows more . Grief and care kills my heart , where God offended is , As the poor merchant's wife , did worldly comforts miss : Strange were the misery's that she so long endur'd , No case by women's help , could be as then procur'd : Hereupon speaks the child , with a voice fearfully , Mother , your wanton pride , brings this your misery : Let your life soon amend , or else the Mighty God , Will scourge your wantonness , with a more sharper rod . About his neck a flaunting ruff it had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue , seemly unto the eye : With laces long and broad , as now are women's bans , Thus heavy wanton pride first in God's anger stands . The breast was plated o're , as still the merchant's be , Now as lewd women wear , to hide adultery : Every part , every limb , had not true nature's frame , But to show to the world this my great since and shame : From the head to the foot , monster like was it born , Every part had the shape of fashions daily worn : On the feet pinked shoes , insteps had roses read , Which in silk now is us'd , so vainly are we led . Thus hath my flesh and blood . nourished now near my heart , Puts me in mind of since , and bids me now conver Oh let all women then , take heed of wanton pride , Angels have fallen from heaven and for that since have dy'd . No sooner brought to light was this fruit of my youth , But to the counsel-house it was brought for a truth : Where to the magistrates , in a most fearful sort , Began aloud to speak , and these words did repor I am a messenger , now sent from God on high , To bid you all repent , Christ's coming draws nigh . Repent you all with speed , this is a message sure , The world seems at and end , and cannot long endure . Pride is the prince of since , which is our chief delight . Mankind repent with speed , before the Lord does finite : This is my last adieu , rep [ e ] ntance soon provide . These were his latest words , and so the monster dy'd . Great was the fear of those , that these same speeches herd . God grant all christians may have their minds well prepar'd With true repentance , God's mercy to implore , That never womankind may bring such fruit forth more . And you fair English dams , that in pride do excel . This woeful misery , in your hearts print full wells Let not pride be your guide , for pride will have a fallen ; Maid and wife , let my life be warning to you all . LONDON : Printed for Tho. Thackeray , in Duck-lane , A.M. and W.O. 