A New BALLAD Of the Three Merry Butchers , [ A ] and Ten Highway Men , how three Butchers went to pay five Hundred pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in the Wood , went to Relieve her , and was there set upon by these Ten Highway Men ; and how only stout Johnson fought with them all ; who killed Eight of the Ten ; and at last was killed by the woman he went to save in the wood . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I'LL tell you of a Story of lovely Butchers three , There's wison , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , As they rid on the Road , and as fast as they could trig , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , we'll have a merry jig , with a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with a high ding , [ ding dee , and God bless all ] good people from evil Company [ . ] As they rid on the Road , sir , as fast as they could high , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for I hear a woman cry , With that he steps into the wood and looks himself all round , And there he spy'd a woman with her hair bound to the ground : Oh woman , Oh woman , quod Johnson , hast thou no evil company ? O no , Oh no , says the woman , and alas how can that be , For there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me , For there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me . Johnson being of a valiant heart , and boar a valiant mind , He wrapped his Cloak about her for to keep her from the wind : with a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with a high ding ding dee , and God bless all good people from evil company . Strike up your hearts says Johnson for it's dark all in the sky , She put her finger in her ear and she gave a shrieking cry ; With that there came ten swaggering blades with their weapons ready drawn , And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand . I will not fight , says wilson , for I had rather die ; Or I to fight ; says gibson , for I had rather fly , Come on , come on , says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back , and i'll win the Victory , Then Johnson's pistols they flew off till five of them were slave , And then he drew his hanger out with all his might & main , And played it about so manfully , till three more he had slave , And played it , etc Come on come on ( says the other two ) and let us make away , For if we do not hold him too't our lives he takes away ; Oh no , Oh no ( quoth the woman ) and alas how can that be , For if you do not hold him too't then hanged you shall be . Johnson fighting these two thieves before , the woman he did not mind , And fighting these two thieves before , she knocked him down behind , Oh woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , alas what have you done ? You have kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . Just as she had killed him there came one Riding by , And saw the deed that she dad done , and seiz'd her presently , She was condemn'd for to be hang'd in Iron chains so strong , At the place where she did Johnson that great & mighty wrong . London , Printed for J. Bissel at the Hospital-Gate in West Smithfield . A New BALLAD Of the Three Merry Butchers , [ A ] and Ten Highway Men , how three Butchers went to pay five Hundred pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in the Wood , went to Relieve her , and was there set upon by these Ten Highway Men ; and how only stout Johnson fought with them all ; who killed Eight of the Ten ; and at last was killed by the woman he went to save in the wood . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I'LL tell you of a Story of lovely Butchers three , There's wison , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , As they rid on the Road , and as fast as they could trig , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , we'll have a merry jig , with a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with a high ding , [ ding dee , and God bless all ] good people from evil Company [ . ] As they rid on the Road , sir , as fast as they could high , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for I hear a woman cry , With that he steps into the wood and looks himself all round , And there he spy'd a woman with her hair bound to the ground : Oh woman , Oh woman , quod Johnson , hast thou no evil company ? O no , Oh no , says the woman , and alas how can that be , For there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me , For there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me . Johnson being of a valiant heart , and boar a valiant mind , He wrapped his Cloak about her for to keep her from the wind : with a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with a high ding ding dee , and God bless all good people from evil company . Strike up your hearts says Johnson for it's dark all in the sky , She put her finger in her ear and she gave a shrieking cry ; With that there came ten swaggering blades with their weapons ready drawn , And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand . I will not fight , says wilson , for I had rather die ; Or I to fight ; says gibson , for I had rather fly , Come on , come on , says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back , and i'll win the Victory , Then Johnson's pistols they flew off till five of them were slave , And then he drew his hanger out with all his might & main , And played it about so manfully , till three more he had slave , And played it , etc Come on come on ( says the other two ) and let us make away , For if we do not hold him too't our lives he takes away ; Oh no , Oh no ( quoth the woman ) and alas how can that be , For if you do not hold him too't then hanged you shall be . Johnson fighting these two thieves before , the woman he did not mind , And fighting these two thieves before , she knocked him down behind , Oh woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , alas what have you done ? You have kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . Just as she had killed him there came one Riding by , And saw the deed that she dad done , and seiz'd her presently , She was condemn'd for to be hang'd in Iron chains so strong , At the place where she did Johnson that great & mighty wrong . London , Printed for J. Bissel at the Hospital-Gate in West Smithfield . 