A New BALLAD Of the Three Merry Butchers , And Ten Highway Men , how three Butchers went to pay five Hundred pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in the Wood , went to Relieve her , and was there set upon by these Ten Highway Men ; and how only stout Johnson fought with them all , who killed Eight of the Ten ; and at last was killed by the woman he went to save in the wood . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I'LL tell you of a Story of lovely Butchers three , There's Wilson , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away . For they took Five hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , As they rid on the road , and as fast as they could trig , strike up your hearts , says Johnson , we'll have a merry jig : with [ a high di ] ng ding , with a ho ding ding , with high ding , [ Ding do , and God ] bless all good people from evil Company . As they rid on the Road , sir , as fast as they could high . strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for I hear a woman cry , With that he stepped into the Wood and looks his self all round And there he spy'd a woman with her hair bound to the ground Oh woman , Oh woman , quod Johnson , hast thou no evil company ; Oh no , Oh no , says the woman , and alas how can that be , For there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me Fot there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me Johnson being of a valiant heart , he boar a valiant mind , He wr [ a ] p [ tO ] his cloak about her for to keep her from the wind , with a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with high ding ding dee , and God bless all good pleople from evil Company . strike up your hearts says Johnson , for it's dark all in the sky , she put her finger in her Ear and gave a screeking cry ; With that there came ten swaggering blades with their wea - pons ready drawn , And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand . I will not fight , says Wilson , for I had rather die ; Or I to fight , says Gibson , for I had rather fly , come on , come on , says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back , and i'll win the victory , Then Johnson's pistoIs they flew off till five of them was slave , and then he drew his hanger out with all his might and main , And played it about so manfully , 'till three more he had slave , And played it , etc come on come on ( says the other two ) and let us make away For if we do not hold him too't our lives he takes away , Oh no , Oh no , quoth the woman and alas how can that be , For if you do not hold him too't then hanged you shall be . Johnson fighting these two thieves before , [ the woman he did not mind , ] and fighting these two thieves [ before , she knocked him down behind , ] O woman , Oh woman , quoth [ Johnson , alas , what have you done ? ] You have kill'd the brave [ st Butcher that ever England wone . ] Just as she had kill [ worser him there came one riding by , ] And saw the deed [ that she had done , and seized her presently , ] she was condemn [ ned for to be hung in Iron chains so strong , ] At the pla [ ce where she did Johnson that great and mighty wrong . ] A New BALLAD Of the Three Merry Butchers , And Ten Highway Men , how three Butchers went to pay five Hundred pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in the Wood , went to Relieve her , and was there set upon by these Ten Highway Men ; and how only stout Johnson fought with them all , who killed Eight of the Ten ; and at last was killed by the woman he went to save in the wood . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I'LL tell you of a Story of lovely Butchers three , There's Wilson , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away . For they took Five hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , As they rid on the road , and as fast as they could trig , strike up your hearts , says Johnson , we'll have a merry jig : with [ a high di ] ng ding , with a ho ding ding , with high ding , [ Ding do , and God ] bless all good people from evil Company . As they rid on the Road , sir , as fast as they could high . strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for I hear a woman cry , With that he stepped into the Wood and looks his self all round And there he spy'd a woman with her hair bound to the ground Oh woman , Oh woman , quod Johnson , hast thou no evil company ; Oh no , Oh no , says the woman , and alas how can that be , For there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me Fot there came ten swaggering blades by , and thus abused me Johnson being of a valiant heart , he boar a valiant mind , He wr [ a ] p [ tO ] his cloak about her for to keep her from the wind , with a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with high ding ding dee , and God bless all good pleople from evil Company . strike up your hearts says Johnson , for it's dark all in the sky , she put her finger in her Ear and gave a screeking cry ; With that there came ten swaggering blades with their wea - pons ready drawn , And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand . I will not fight , says Wilson , for I had rather die ; Or I to fight , says Gibson , for I had rather fly , come on , come on , says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back , and i'll win the victory , Then Johnson's pistoIs they flew off till five of them was slave , and then he drew his hanger out with all his might and main , And played it about so manfully , 'till three more he had slave , And played it , etc come on come on ( says the other two ) and let us make away For if we do not hold him too't our lives he takes away , Oh no , Oh no , quoth the woman and alas how can that be , For if you do not hold him too't then hanged you shall be . Johnson fighting these two thieves before , [ the woman he did not mind , ] and fighting these two thieves [ before , she knocked him down behind , ] O woman , Oh woman , quoth [ Johnson , alas , what have you done ? ] You have kill'd the brave [ st Butcher that ever England wone . ] Just as she had kill [ worser him there came one riding by , ] And saw the deed [ that she had done , and seized her presently , ] she was condemn [ ned for to be hung in Iron chains so strong , ] At the pla [ ce where she did Johnson that great and mighty wrong . ] 