A FIGHT Between And English Fire-Ship AND A French Privatiere . Tune of , Give ear to my Frolicsome Ditty . Licensed according to Order . I . I'm a Prize for a Captain to fallen on , my Name it is Sea faring Kate , My Sails they are Top and Top Gallant , a Frigate that's of the First Rate . II A French-man came lately to Board me , which was not a very hard thing ; And swore that he first would Rummage me , then make a Prize for the King . III . Last Summer he Sail'd from the Shannon , and long at and Anchor had Rid , On his Midship he had a good Cannon , was all the great Guns that he had . IV. He Hoist his Main-Yard , and Steered his Course , and gave me a Broadside , My Poop and my Stern Port sneared , between the Wind , Water and Tide . V. Close under his Lee I did hover , with all the force I could afford , But , as he had been a Rank Rover , he briskly did lay me on Board . VI . He sought for some hidden Treasure , and fell to his doing of Feats , But found me a Fireship of pleasure , when he entered the mouth of the straits . VII . It was a high Tide , and the Water , with and Easterly Wind it did blow , Our Frigates god foul of each other , and could not get off , nor Ride so . VIII . My bottom was strongly well planked , my Deck could a Tempest endure , But ne'er was poor Dog in a blanket , so tossed as was the Monsieur . IX . No Near then his Course he still steered , and clapped his hand down to his sword , But as his loof Tackle he cleared , I brought his Main-Top by the Board . X. He feared to burn a Sea Martyr , for my Gun-Room was all on a fire , But I blew up my second Deck quarter , just as he began to Retire . XI . I seper'd him so from the Senter , as ne'er was a Son of a whore , I burned his Main-Yard at a Venture , so that he would board me no more . XII . Then Monsieur god off , and was grieved , and Cursed the English first Rates , For , till then , he could ne'er have believed , that Strumbilo lay in the Straights . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . A FIGHT Between And English Fire-Ship AND A French Privatiere . Tune of , Give ear to my Frolicsome Ditty . Licensed according to Order . I . I'm a Prize for a Captain to fallen on , my Name it is Sea faring Kate , My Sails they are Top and Top Gallant , a Frigate that's of the First Rate . II A French-man came lately to Board me , which was not a very hard thing ; And swore that he first would Rummage me , then make a Prize for the King . III . Last Summer he Sail'd from the Shannon , and long at and Anchor had Rid , On his Midship he had a good Cannon , was all the great Guns that he had . IV. He Hoist his Main-Yard , and Steered his Course , and gave me a Broadside , My Poop and my Stern Port sneared , between the Wind , Water and Tide . V. Close under his Lee I did hover , with all the force I could afford , But , as he had been a Rank Rover , he briskly did lay me on Board . VI . He sought for some hidden Treasure , and fell to his doing of Feats , But found me a Fireship of pleasure , when he entered the mouth of the straits . VII . It was a high Tide , and the Water , with and Easterly Wind it did blow , Our Frigates god foul of each other , and could not get off , nor Ride so . VIII . My bottom was strongly well planked , my Deck could a Tempest endure , But ne'er was poor Dog in a blanket , so tossed as was the Monsieur . IX . No Near then his Course he still steered , and clapped his hand down to his sword , But as his loof Tackle he cleared , I brought his Main-Top by the Board . X. He feared to burn a Sea Martyr , for my Gun-Room was all on a fire , But I blew up my second Deck quarter , just as he began to Retire . XI . I seper'd him so from the Senter , as ne'er was a Son of a whore , I burned his Main-Yard at a Venture , so that he would board me no more . XII . Then Monsieur god off , and was grieved , and Cursed the English first Rates , For , till then , he could ne'er have believed , that Strumbilo lay in the Straights . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . 