King JOHN and the Abbot of Canterbury . I Will tell you a story , a story anon , Of a noble prince whose name was king John : For he was a prince , and a prince of great might , He held up great wrongs , and put down great right . Derry down , down , down , derry down . I will tell you a story , a story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury ; Which made him repair to fair London town The king having herd of his fame and renown . Derry down , etc How now brother Abbot , it is told to me , That thou keep'st a far better house than I , And for thy housekeeping and high renown I fear thou hast treason against my crown . Derry down , etc I hope my liege you owe me no grudge , For spending my own true got goods . If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body . Derry down , etc When I am set upon my steed , With my crown of gold upon my head ; Among all my nobility with joy and mirth , Then tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? At the third question you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think . Derry down , etc And as the shepherd was going to his fold , He 'spy'd the old Abbot come riding along . How now father Abbot , you are welcome home , What news have you brought from good king John. Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news I have to give , For I have but three days on earth to live , If I don't answer him questions three , My head will be taken from my body . Derry down , etc When he is fit on his steed so high , With his crown of gold upon his head ; Among all his nobility with joy and mirth , I must tell him to one penny what he is worth . Derry down , etc At the next question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the world about . At the third question I must not shrink , But tell him plainly what he does think . Derry down , etc These are hard questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet ; But if you will give me three days space , I'll do my endeavour to answer your grace . Derry down , etc O three days space I will the give , And that is the longest time thou shalt live , If you do not answer these questions right , Your head shall be taken from your body quite . Derry down , etc O master ! did you never hear it yet , That a fool may learn a wise man wi Lend me your horse and your apparel , I will go to London and answer your quarrel . Derry down , etc Now I am fit on my steed so high , With my crown of gold upon my head , Among my nobility with joy and mirth , Tell me to a penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , Among the false Jews , as I have been told : And nine and twenty is the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worse than he . Derry down , At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? You must rise with the sun , and ride with the same , Until the next morning it riseth again . Derry down , etc And then I am sure there is no doubt , But in twenty-four hours you'll ride it abou At the third question ; you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think : Derry down , etc All that I can do and make your heart merry For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury : But I'm a poor shepherd as you may see , And I am come to beg pardon for him and me . Derry down , etc The king he turn'd round , and did smile , Saying thou shalt be ABBOT the other while . O no , my liege , there is no such need , For I can neither write nor read . Derry down , etc Then four pounds per week I give unto thee , For this merry true jest thou hast told me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought a pardon from good king John. Derry down , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow L [ ane ] L [ ondon ] King JOHN and the Abbot of Canterbury . I Will tell you a story , a story anon , Of a noble prince whose name was king John : For he was a prince , and a prince of great might , He held up great wrongs , and put down great right . Derry down , down , down , derry down . I will tell you a story , a story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury ; Which made him repair to fair London town The king having herd of his fame and renown . Derry down , etc How now brother Abbot , it is told to me , That thou keep'st a far better house than I , And for thy housekeeping and high renown I fear thou hast treason against my crown . Derry down , etc I hope my liege you owe me no grudge , For spending my own true got goods . If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body . Derry down , etc When I am set upon my steed , With my crown of gold upon my head ; Among all my nobility with joy and mirth , Then tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? At the third question you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think . Derry down , etc And as the shepherd was going to his fold , He 'spy'd the old Abbot come riding along . How now father Abbot , you are welcome home , What news have you brought from good king John. Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news I have to give , For I have but three days on earth to live , If I don't answer him questions three , My head will be taken from my body . Derry down , etc When he is fit on his steed so high , With his crown of gold upon his head ; Among all his nobility with joy and mirth , I must tell him to one penny what he is worth . Derry down , etc At the next question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the world about . At the third question I must not shrink , But tell him plainly what he does think . Derry down , etc These are hard questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet ; But if you will give me three days space , I'll do my endeavour to answer your grace . Derry down , etc O three days space I will the give , And that is the longest time thou shalt live , If you do not answer these questions right , Your head shall be taken from your body quite . Derry down , etc O master ! did you never hear it yet , That a fool may learn a wise man wi Lend me your horse and your apparel , I will go to London and answer your quarrel . Derry down , etc Now I am fit on my steed so high , With my crown of gold upon my head , Among my nobility with joy and mirth , Tell me to a penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , Among the false Jews , as I have been told : And nine and twenty is the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worse than he . Derry down , At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? You must rise with the sun , and ride with the same , Until the next morning it riseth again . Derry down , etc And then I am sure there is no doubt , But in twenty-four hours you'll ride it abou At the third question ; you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think : Derry down , etc All that I can do and make your heart merry For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury : But I'm a poor shepherd as you may see , And I am come to beg pardon for him and me . Derry down , etc The king he turn'd round , and did smile , Saying thou shalt be ABBOT the other while . O no , my liege , there is no such need , For I can neither write nor read . Derry down , etc Then four pounds per week I give unto thee , For this merry true jest thou hast told me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought a pardon from good king John. Derry down , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow L [ ane ] L [ ondon ] King JOHN and the Abbot of Canterbury . I Will tell you a story , a story anon , Of a noble prince whose name was king John : For he was a prince , and a prince of great might , He held up great wrongs , and put down great right . Derry down , down , down , derry down . I will tell you a story , a story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury ; Which made him repair to fair London town The king having herd of his fame and renown . Derry down , etc How now brother Abbot , it is told to me , That thou keep'st a far better house than I , And for thy housekeeping and high renown I fear thou hast treason against my crown . Derry down , etc I hope my liege you owe me no grudge , For spending my own true got goods . If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body . Derry down , etc When I am set upon my steed , With my crown of gold upon my head ; Among all my nobility with joy and mirth , Then tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? At the third question you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think . Derry down , etc And as the shepherd was going to his fold , He 'spy'd the old Abbot come riding along . How now father Abbot , you are welcome home , What news have you brought from good king John. Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news I have to give , For I have but three days on earth to live , If I don't answer him questions three , My head will be taken from my body . Derry down , etc When he is fit on his steed so high , With his crown of gold upon his head ; Among all his nobility with joy and mirth , I must tell him to one penny what he is worth . Derry down , etc At the next question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the world about . At the third question I must not shrink , But tell him plainly what he does think . Derry down , etc These are hard questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet ; But if you will give me three days space , I'll do my endeavour to answer your grace . Derry down , etc O three days space I will the give , And that is the longest time thou shalt live , If you do not answer these questions right , Your head shall be taken from your body quite . Derry down , etc O master ! did you never hear it yet , That a fool may learn a wise man wi Lend me your horse and your apparel , I will go to London and answer your quarrel . Derry down , etc Now I am fit on my steed so high , With my crown of gold upon my head , Among my nobility with joy and mirth , Tell me to a penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , Among the false Jews , as I have been told : And nine and twenty is the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worse than he . Derry down , At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? You must rise with the sun , and ride with the same , Until the next morning it riseth again . Derry down , etc And then I am sure there is no doubt , But in twenty-four hours you'll ride it abou At the third question ; you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think : Derry down , etc All that I can do and make your heart merry For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury : But I'm a poor shepherd as you may see , And I am come to beg pardon for him and me . Derry down , etc The king he turn'd round , and did smile , Saying thou shalt be ABBOT the other while . O no , my liege , there is no such need , For I can neither write nor read . Derry down , etc Then four pounds per week I give unto thee , For this merry true jest thou hast told me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought a pardon from good king John. Derry down , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow L [ ane ] L [ ondon ] King JOHN and the Abbot of Canterbury . I Will tell you a story , a story anon , Of a noble prince whose name was king John : For he was a prince , and a prince of great might , He held up great wrongs , and put down great right . Derry down , down , down , derry down . I will tell you a story , a story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury ; Which made him repair to fair London town The king having herd of his fame and renown . Derry down , etc How now brother Abbot , it is told to me , That thou keep'st a far better house than I , And for thy housekeeping and high renown I fear thou hast treason against my crown . Derry down , etc I hope my liege you owe me no grudge , For spending my own true got goods . If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body . Derry down , etc When I am set upon my steed , With my crown of gold upon my head ; Among all my nobility with joy and mirth , Then tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? At the third question you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think . Derry down , etc And as the shepherd was going to his fold , He 'spy'd the old Abbot come riding along . How now father Abbot , you are welcome home , What news have you brought from good king John. Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news I have to give , For I have but three days on earth to live , If I don't answer him questions three , My head will be taken from my body . Derry down , etc When he is fit on his steed so high , With his crown of gold upon his head ; Among all his nobility with joy and mirth , I must tell him to one penny what he is worth . Derry down , etc At the next question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the world about . At the third question I must not shrink , But tell him plainly what he does think . Derry down , etc These are hard questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet ; But if you will give me three days space , I'll do my endeavour to answer your grace . Derry down , etc O three days space I will the give , And that is the longest time thou shalt live , If you do not answer these questions right , Your head shall be taken from your body quite . Derry down , etc O master ! did you never hear it yet , That a fool may learn a wise man wi Lend me your horse and your apparel , I will go to London and answer your quarrel . Derry down , etc Now I am fit on my steed so high , With my crown of gold upon my head , Among my nobility with joy and mirth , Tell me to a penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , Among the false Jews , as I have been told : And nine and twenty is the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worse than he . Derry down , At the next question you must not flout , How long shall I be riding the world about ? You must rise with the sun , and ride with the same , Until the next morning it riseth again . Derry down , etc And then I am sure there is no doubt , But in twenty-four hours you'll ride it abou At the third question ; you must not shrink But tell me truly what I do think : Derry down , etc All that I can do and make your heart merry For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury : But I'm a poor shepherd as you may see , And I am come to beg pardon for him and me . Derry down , etc The king he turn'd round , and did smile , Saying thou shalt be ABBOT the other while . O no , my liege , there is no such need , For I can neither write nor read . Derry down , etc Then four pounds per week I give unto thee , For this merry true jest thou hast told me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought a pardon from good king John. Derry down , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow L [ ane ] L [ ondon ] 