THE Plymouth TRAGEDY : OR Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear ; Let all cruel parents by this take a warning , In love do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her nam [ e ] A young ship-carpenter came to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear . If you deny me , my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty be not so severe . Susan replied to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Altho' I have god many more suitors , Of none but sweet William , my heart can approve . But William replied , three years to the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear . A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe : After that day this couple was parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay : They said , child , it is but your duty Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pearl ; Your beautiful charms dear child are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore : I have made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or more . 'Tis not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love heaven sure will requite ? Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love , he shall be my delight . Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you , Never each other more you shall see : And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banished for ever from me . Then , cruel father ! answered the damsel , If that's your will , I am bound to obey ; May the crime be yours for ever . The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her , To marry the merchant , tho' never the near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant To my dear Billy that's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyal , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Which said , at the Indies her love did expire . When dying , he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter , and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say , Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , Now to another I'm forced away . Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consent ; Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent . Costly rich robes of gold and fine jewels Then were prepar'd for the beautiful bride ; Then with a noble train to attend them , To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play : Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were merry , But this was a fatal and sad wedding day . That very week sweet William All in the Downs with a very good cheer ; And to let Susan know these happy tidings , Strait wrote a letter and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw a postman ringing at the door , Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , that he had a letter for her . Strait to the door , then she flew in a passion , Eagerly taking the letter in her hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruined for ever , Her costly robes she in pieces did tear ; Go unkind parents , for you have been cruel Thus for to part me from my only dear . What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows ? It was cursed gold , of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband , And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my sweet creature , It is not you my charms can enjoy ; Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death send a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed , she no comfort can have ; Crying out , death , now soon come ease me ! O! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bridemen wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear : Get violets and thyme to make my love posies . Let the funeral wine be water so clear . I'll go to William that is loyal-hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear . Then with a sighs , and a groan , she departed ; Parents take warning by what's written here . When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd , And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William who then in his cabin was sleeping , Was wak'd with a voice that strangely did cry . William arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright as the sun ; Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed , William make haste , to your lover come . William soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear : Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan , His looks more pale than the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did then disappear . William then raved like one in distraction , Crying , has death robbed me of my dear ? Then at fair Plymouth town he arrived , Straightway the tidings unto him was told : He said , unkind and most cruel parents , Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love , but my dear ; Soon for thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire . O! cruel fortune to lovers severe . That very night , to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay , Upon her coffin he then expired . And by her parents was found the next day . Now those two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb . the covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloom . Printed and Sold at the Printing Office in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON . THE Plymouth TRAGEDY : OR Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear ; Let all cruel parents by this take a warning , In love do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her nam [ e ] A young ship-carpenter came to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear . If you deny me , my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty be not so severe . Susan replied to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Altho' I have god many more suitors , Of none but sweet William , my heart can approve . But William replied , three years to the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear . A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe : After that day this couple was parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay : They said , child , it is but your duty Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pearl ; Your beautiful charms dear child are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore : I have made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or more . 'Tis not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love heaven sure will requite ? Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love , he shall be my delight . Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you , Never each other more you shall see : And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banished for ever from me . Then , cruel father ! answered the damsel , If that's your will , I am bound to obey ; May the crime be yours for ever . The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her , To marry the merchant , tho' never the near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant To my dear Billy that's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyal , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Which said , at the Indies her love did expire . When dying , he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter , and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say , Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , Now to another I'm forced away . Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consent ; Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent . Costly rich robes of gold and fine jewels Then were prepar'd for the beautiful bride ; Then with a noble train to attend them , To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play : Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were merry , But this was a fatal and sad wedding day . That very week sweet William All in the Downs with a very good cheer ; And to let Susan know these happy tidings , Strait wrote a letter and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw a postman ringing at the door , Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , that he had a letter for her . Strait to the door , then she flew in a passion , Eagerly taking the letter in her hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruined for ever , Her costly robes she in pieces did tear ; Go unkind parents , for you have been cruel Thus for to part me from my only dear . What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows ? It was cursed gold , of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband , And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my sweet creature , It is not you my charms can enjoy ; Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death send a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed , she no comfort can have ; Crying out , death , now soon come ease me ! O! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bridemen wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear : Get violets and thyme to make my love posies . Let the funeral wine be water so clear . I'll go to William that is loyal-hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear . Then with a sighs , and a groan , she departed ; Parents take warning by what's written here . When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd , And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William who then in his cabin was sleeping , Was wak'd with a voice that strangely did cry . William arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright as the sun ; Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed , William make haste , to your lover come . William soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear : Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan , His looks more pale than the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did then disappear . William then raved like one in distraction , Crying , has death robbed me of my dear ? Then at fair Plymouth town he arrived , Straightway the tidings unto him was told : He said , unkind and most cruel parents , Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love , but my dear ; Soon for thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire . O! cruel fortune to lovers severe . That very night , to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay , Upon her coffin he then expired . And by her parents was found the next day . Now those two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb . the covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloom . Printed and Sold at the Printing Office in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON . THE Plymouth TRAGEDY : OR Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear ; Let all cruel parents by this take a warning , In love do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her nam [ e ] A young ship-carpenter came to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear . If you deny me , my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty be not so severe . Susan replied to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Altho' I have god many more suitors , Of none but sweet William , my heart can approve . But William replied , three years to the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear . A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe : After that day this couple was parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay : They said , child , it is but your duty Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pearl ; Your beautiful charms dear child are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore : I have made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or more . 'Tis not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love heaven sure will requite ? Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love , he shall be my delight . Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you , Never each other more you shall see : And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banished for ever from me . Then , cruel father ! answered the damsel , If that's your will , I am bound to obey ; May the crime be yours for ever . The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her , To marry the merchant , tho' never the near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant To my dear Billy that's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyal , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Which said , at the Indies her love did expire . When dying , he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter , and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say , Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , Now to another I'm forced away . Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consent ; Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent . Costly rich robes of gold and fine jewels Then were prepar'd for the beautiful bride ; Then with a noble train to attend them , To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play : Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were merry , But this was a fatal and sad wedding day . That very week sweet William All in the Downs with a very good cheer ; And to let Susan know these happy tidings , Strait wrote a letter and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw a postman ringing at the door , Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , that he had a letter for her . Strait to the door , then she flew in a passion , Eagerly taking the letter in her hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruined for ever , Her costly robes she in pieces did tear ; Go unkind parents , for you have been cruel Thus for to part me from my only dear . What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows ? It was cursed gold , of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband , And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my sweet creature , It is not you my charms can enjoy ; Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death send a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed , she no comfort can have ; Crying out , death , now soon come ease me ! O! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bridemen wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear : Get violets and thyme to make my love posies . Let the funeral wine be water so clear . I'll go to William that is loyal-hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear . Then with a sighs , and a groan , she departed ; Parents take warning by what's written here . When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd , And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William who then in his cabin was sleeping , Was wak'd with a voice that strangely did cry . William arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright as the sun ; Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed , William make haste , to your lover come . William soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear : Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan , His looks more pale than the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did then disappear . William then raved like one in distraction , Crying , has death robbed me of my dear ? Then at fair Plymouth town he arrived , Straightway the tidings unto him was told : He said , unkind and most cruel parents , Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love , but my dear ; Soon for thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire . O! cruel fortune to lovers severe . That very night , to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay , Upon her coffin he then expired . And by her parents was found the next day . Now those two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb . the covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloom . Printed and Sold at the Printing Office in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON . THE Plymouth TRAGEDY : OR Fair SUSAN's Overthrow . BEautiful virgins of birth and breeding , Now to my ditty pray lend and ear ; Let all cruel parents by this take a warning , In love do not cross your children dear . In Plymouth town liv'd a beautiful maiden , And lovely Susan indeed was her nam [ e ] A young ship-carpenter came to court her , Her beautiful charms did his heart so inflame . He said , charming Susan , now grant my desire , Strong is the passion I have for my dear . If you deny me , my life will expire , Sweet angel beauty be not so severe . Susan replied to the beautiful young man , Do not despair , I will grant you my love ; Altho' I have god many more suitors , Of none but sweet William , my heart can approve . But William replied , three years to the ocean , Now I am bound sweet lovely dear . It shall be spent for my jewel's portion , Rich costly jewels I'll bring to my dear . A piece of gold between them was broken , But cruel fortune to them was severe : After that day this couple was parted , William did never see his charming dear . A wealthy merchant beholding her beauty , Went to her parents without more delay : They said , child , it is but your duty Your honoured parents for to obey . This noble merchant has store of riches , He'll deck you in gold and fine costly pearl ; Your beautiful charms dear child are fitting To be embraced by lord , duke , or earl . Honoured parents , do not be so cruel ; No other man I can ever adore : I have made a vow to my dear to be constant , We have loved each other these two years or more . 'Tis not cursed gold that shall make me disloyal , Perjur'd love heaven sure will requite ? Then do not strive to be my undoing , For William I love , he shall be my delight . Then , said her father , I'll quickly part you , Never each other more you shall see : And if you will not marry the merchant , You shall be banished for ever from me . Then , cruel father ! answered the damsel , If that's your will , I am bound to obey ; May the crime be yours for ever . The merchant shall have little comfort of me . Then was the merchant admitted the favour To go and visit his beautiful dear . Her parents they did strive to persuade her , To marry the merchant , tho' never the near . Still she reply'd , I'll ever be constant To my dear Billy that's over the main . No wealth nor riches shall make me disloyal , The world for sweet William I can disdain . Her parents finding she was so constant , Hired a sailor a letter to bring ; Which said , at the Indies her love did expire . When dying , he gave me this letter to bring . Opening the letter , and finding her lover Had expired , she thus did say , Oh! that I had dy'd in the room of my jewel , Now to another I'm forced away . Her parents then entreated her to marry , At length to the merchant she did consent ; Poor harmless maid ! she never thinking The cruel mischief on which they were bent . Costly rich robes of gold and fine jewels Then were prepar'd for the beautiful bride ; Then with a noble train to attend them , To Plymouth-church they went to be ty'd . A splendid dinner was also provided , The bells' did ring , and the trumpets did play : Her covetous parents rejoic'd and were merry , But this was a fatal and sad wedding day . That very week sweet William All in the Downs with a very good cheer ; And to let Susan know these happy tidings , Strait wrote a letter and sent to his dear . As at the window the bride was gazing , She saw a postman ringing at the door , Calling aloud to the beautiful Susan , Saying , that he had a letter for her . Strait to the door , then she flew in a passion , Eagerly taking the letter in her hand , Found in the Downs sweet William was riding , With vast store of riches he had brought to land . She said , Oh! now I am ruined for ever , Her costly robes she in pieces did tear ; Go unkind parents , for you have been cruel Thus for to part me from my only dear . What will he say ? now I shall be upbraided , Where is my girl , the pledge of my vows ? It was cursed gold , of my dear did deprive me , Blasted and gone is my virgin rose . The bridegroom gently strove to persuade her , Saying fair Susan , now you are wed , You must incline now unto your husband , And yield up your charms in the bridal bed . No , no , she cries , my sweet creature , It is not you my charms can enjoy ; Tho' I am wedded I will die a maiden , Death send a dart now this life to destroy . Thus in distraction this maiden lies weeping , Bound in her bed , she no comfort can have ; Crying out , death , now soon come ease me ! O! let my bridebed be a silent grave . Let my bridemen wear the white lilies , Instead of costly favours so gay : And let the maidens wear the green willow , To show William , I've been constant to thee . Strew all the groves with the whitest flowers , To show how innocent I wrong'd my dear : Get violets and thyme to make my love posies . Let the funeral wine be water so clear . I'll go to William that is loyal-hearted , My troubled ghost shall mourn for my dear . Then with a sighs , and a groan , she departed ; Parents take warning by what's written here . When darksome night bright Sol encompass'd , And twinkling stars spread the sparkling skies , William who then in his cabin was sleeping , Was wak'd with a voice that strangely did cry . William arise , see beautiful Susan , Whose charms were once as bright as the sun ; Now in death's frozen arms is enclosed , William make haste , to your lover come . William soon from his pillow arising , Cried , Oh! what is the found I do hear : Soon as he spied the ghost of his Susan , His looks more pale than the led did appear . Close in his arms he goes to enfold her , But soon the shadow did then disappear . William then raved like one in distraction , Crying , has death robbed me of my dear ? Then at fair Plymouth town he arrived , Straightway the tidings unto him was told : He said , unkind and most cruel parents , Thus to wrong a child for the lucre of gold . Many rich offers for her I refused , None could I ever love , but my dear ; Soon for thee , dear Susan , thy love will expire . O! cruel fortune to lovers severe . That very night , to her grave he retired , Digging the mould from her breathless clay , Upon her coffin he then expired . And by her parents was found the next day . Now those two lovers are both enclosed Together in one sad dismal tomb . the covetous parents by this take warning , Blast not children in the midst of their bloom . Printed and Sold at the Printing Office in Bow-Church-Yard , LONDON . 