A Courtly Ballad of the Princely Wooing of the Fair MAID of London , by Renowned King EDWARD , etc To the Tune of , Bonny sweet Robin , etc Fair Angel of England , thy beauty most bright , Is all my heart's pleasure , my joy and delight ; Then grant me , far Lady , thy true Love to be , That I may say , Welcome good Fortune to me . The turtle so chaste and true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move ; Then be not entreated , fair Lady , in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ; But be not , my Darling , so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the phoenix dost penance in fire . But , alas ! gently Lady , I pity your state , In being resolved to live without Mate ; For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scorn and disdain ; But if you will grant your goodwill unto me , You shall be advanced to Princely Degree . Promotions and honour may often entice , The Chastest that lives , though never so nice ; What Woman so worthy but could be content , [ To live in a palace where princes frequent Two brides young and princely To church I have led Two ladies now lately have decked my bed . ] Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Then all their contentment's , whereof I had part . Your gentle heart cannot Men's hearts much abide , And Women least angry when most they do chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want mercy , & poor Women strength I grant that fair Ladies may poor Men resist , And Princes may conquer , and woo when they list , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a King's Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crown'd with England's crown ; Thy garments most gallant of gold shall be wrought , If true love with treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain ; My chamber most Princely thy Person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If there's any pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them , sweet Lady , thy mind to content , For Kings gallant courts , where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , [ But print in thy bosom these words I have said And grant a King favour you true love to be That I may say Welcome sweet virgin to me . ] 'The Fair MAID of London's Answer to King EDWARD's Wanton Love . Oh Wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not a [ tO ] tain , With getting thou losest , and having dost want it , The which if thou purchased is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing , yet quite am undone ; But if of my jewel a King does deceive me , No King can restore tho' a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since thou seest me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeks , To paleness is turned , which all Men dislikes . I pass not for Princess for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me best , I have not disnerved to lie by his side , Nor yet to be counted so , King Edward's Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy Handmaid will have ; My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair court Such heaps of deer sorrow she never had seen Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . [ All men have their freedom To show Their intent They win not a Woman unless she consent ] Who then can impute to them any fault , Who still go upright until Men do halt . 'Tis counted a kindness in Men for to try , And virtue in Women the same to deny ; For Women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their Betters therein may be mov'd . If Women and modesty once do him sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever ; And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , E'er any Man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot from me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The Heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie ; If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity and weep on my tomb , TO [ h ] en for my birth curse my dear Mother's woman [ b ] That brought forth a blossom that stained the tr [ ee ] With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me most noble King , temp not in vain My milk white affection with lewdness to stain Though England will give me no comforts [ at all Yet England will give me a sad-burial . ] A Courtly Ballad of the Princely Wooing of the Fair MAID of London , by Renowned King EDWARD , etc To the Tune of , Bonny sweet Robin , etc Fair Angel of England , thy beauty most bright , Is all my heart's pleasure , my joy and delight ; Then grant me , far Lady , thy true Love to be , That I may say , Welcome good Fortune to me . The turtle so chaste and true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move ; Then be not entreated , fair Lady , in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ; But be not , my Darling , so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the phoenix dost penance in fire . But , alas ! gently Lady , I pity your state , In being resolved to live without Mate ; For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scorn and disdain ; But if you will grant your goodwill unto me , You shall be advanced to Princely Degree . Promotions and honour may often entice , The Chastest that lives , though never so nice ; What Woman so worthy but could be content , [ To live in a palace where princes frequent Two brides young and princely To church I have led Two ladies now lately have decked my bed . ] Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Then all their contentment's , whereof I had part . Your gentle heart cannot Men's hearts much abide , And Women least angry when most they do chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want mercy , & poor Women strength I grant that fair Ladies may poor Men resist , And Princes may conquer , and woo when they list , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a King's Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crown'd with England's crown ; Thy garments most gallant of gold shall be wrought , If true love with treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain ; My chamber most Princely thy Person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If there's any pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them , sweet Lady , thy mind to content , For Kings gallant courts , where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , [ But print in thy bosom these words I have said And grant a King favour you true love to be That I may say Welcome sweet virgin to me . ] 'The Fair MAID of London's Answer to King EDWARD's Wanton Love . Oh Wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not a [ tO ] tain , With getting thou losest , and having dost want it , The which if thou purchased is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing , yet quite am undone ; But if of my jewel a King does deceive me , No King can restore tho' a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since thou seest me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeks , To paleness is turned , which all Men dislikes . I pass not for Princess for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me best , I have not disnerved to lie by his side , Nor yet to be counted so , King Edward's Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy Handmaid will have ; My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair court Such heaps of deer sorrow she never had seen Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . [ All men have their freedom To show Their intent They win not a Woman unless she consent ] Who then can impute to them any fault , Who still go upright until Men do halt . 'Tis counted a kindness in Men for to try , And virtue in Women the same to deny ; For Women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their Betters therein may be mov'd . If Women and modesty once do him sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever ; And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , E'er any Man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot from me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The Heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie ; If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity and weep on my tomb , TO [ h ] en for my birth curse my dear Mother's woman [ b ] That brought forth a blossom that stained the tr [ ee ] With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me most noble King , temp not in vain My milk white affection with lewdness to stain Though England will give me no comforts [ at all Yet England will give me a sad-burial . ] A Courtly Ballad of the Princely Wooing of the Fair MAID of London , by Renowned King EDWARD , etc To the Tune of , Bonny sweet Robin , etc Fair Angel of England , thy beauty most bright , Is all my heart's pleasure , my joy and delight ; Then grant me , far Lady , thy true Love to be , That I may say , Welcome good Fortune to me . The turtle so chaste and true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move ; Then be not entreated , fair Lady , in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ; But be not , my Darling , so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the phoenix dost penance in fire . But , alas ! gently Lady , I pity your state , In being resolved to live without Mate ; For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scorn and disdain ; But if you will grant your goodwill unto me , You shall be advanced to Princely Degree . Promotions and honour may often entice , The Chastest that lives , though never so nice ; What Woman so worthy but could be content , [ To live in a palace where princes frequent Two brides young and princely To church I have led Two ladies now lately have decked my bed . ] Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Then all their contentment's , whereof I had part . Your gentle heart cannot Men's hearts much abide , And Women least angry when most they do chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want mercy , & poor Women strength I grant that fair Ladies may poor Men resist , And Princes may conquer , and woo when they list , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a King's Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crown'd with England's crown ; Thy garments most gallant of gold shall be wrought , If true love with treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain ; My chamber most Princely thy Person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If there's any pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them , sweet Lady , thy mind to content , For Kings gallant courts , where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , [ But print in thy bosom these words I have said And grant a King favour you true love to be That I may say Welcome sweet virgin to me . ] 'The Fair MAID of London's Answer to King EDWARD's Wanton Love . Oh Wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not a [ tO ] tain , With getting thou losest , and having dost want it , The which if thou purchased is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing , yet quite am undone ; But if of my jewel a King does deceive me , No King can restore tho' a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since thou seest me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeks , To paleness is turned , which all Men dislikes . I pass not for Princess for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me best , I have not disnerved to lie by his side , Nor yet to be counted so , King Edward's Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy Handmaid will have ; My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair court Such heaps of deer sorrow she never had seen Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . [ All men have their freedom To show Their intent They win not a Woman unless she consent ] Who then can impute to them any fault , Who still go upright until Men do halt . 'Tis counted a kindness in Men for to try , And virtue in Women the same to deny ; For Women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their Betters therein may be mov'd . If Women and modesty once do him sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever ; And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , E'er any Man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot from me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The Heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie ; If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity and weep on my tomb , TO [ h ] en for my birth curse my dear Mother's woman [ b ] That brought forth a blossom that stained the tr [ ee ] With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me most noble King , temp not in vain My milk white affection with lewdness to stain Though England will give me no comforts [ at all Yet England will give me a sad-burial . ] A Courtly Ballad of the Princely Wooing of the Fair MAID of London , by Renowned King EDWARD , etc To the Tune of , Bonny sweet Robin , etc Fair Angel of England , thy beauty most bright , Is all my heart's pleasure , my joy and delight ; Then grant me , far Lady , thy true Love to be , That I may say , Welcome good Fortune to me . The turtle so chaste and true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move ; Then be not entreated , fair Lady , in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ; But be not , my Darling , so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the phoenix dost penance in fire . But , alas ! gently Lady , I pity your state , In being resolved to live without Mate ; For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scorn and disdain ; But if you will grant your goodwill unto me , You shall be advanced to Princely Degree . Promotions and honour may often entice , The Chastest that lives , though never so nice ; What Woman so worthy but could be content , [ To live in a palace where princes frequent Two brides young and princely To church I have led Two ladies now lately have decked my bed . ] Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Then all their contentment's , whereof I had part . Your gentle heart cannot Men's hearts much abide , And Women least angry when most they do chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want mercy , & poor Women strength I grant that fair Ladies may poor Men resist , And Princes may conquer , and woo when they list , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a King's Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crown'd with England's crown ; Thy garments most gallant of gold shall be wrought , If true love with treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain ; My chamber most Princely thy Person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If there's any pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them , sweet Lady , thy mind to content , For Kings gallant courts , where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , [ But print in thy bosom these words I have said And grant a King favour you true love to be That I may say Welcome sweet virgin to me . ] 'The Fair MAID of London's Answer to King EDWARD's Wanton Love . Oh Wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not a [ tO ] tain , With getting thou losest , and having dost want it , The which if thou purchased is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing , yet quite am undone ; But if of my jewel a King does deceive me , No King can restore tho' a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since thou seest me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeks , To paleness is turned , which all Men dislikes . I pass not for Princess for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me best , I have not disnerved to lie by his side , Nor yet to be counted so , King Edward's Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy Handmaid will have ; My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair court Such heaps of deer sorrow she never had seen Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . [ All men have their freedom To show Their intent They win not a Woman unless she consent ] Who then can impute to them any fault , Who still go upright until Men do halt . 'Tis counted a kindness in Men for to try , And virtue in Women the same to deny ; For Women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their Betters therein may be mov'd . If Women and modesty once do him sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever ; And Royal King Edward let me be exil'd , E'er any Man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot from me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The Heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie ; If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity and weep on my tomb , TO [ h ] en for my birth curse my dear Mother's woman [ b ] That brought forth a blossom that stained the tr [ ee ] With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me most noble King , temp not in vain My milk white affection with lewdness to stain Though England will give me no comforts [ at all Yet England will give me a sad-burial . ] 