b And ELEGY On the Death of ( the much to be lamented ) Anthony King of Poland , THe busy Toney , who by Toil unblest Torments himself , to break his Countries' Rest ; Who , ceasing to be Engineer of State , Turn'd Rogue , yet could not turn the Wheels of Fate : Like Sysyphus , he rowls his Stone in vain ; Death plucks his Tap , and ends his PLOTS and Pain . The Graves long Pampus Rebels must pass o're ; Thence restless Rascals can return no more . Wretch of 3 Names farewell ! Thy Death's kind stretch , Secures Thee from the Sword and Axes reach ; Thy Life , Old Tricker , stood in Fate so high , That Hang-man's hand was fit to make Thee die ; Yes , Hangman only frames Thy Funeral Urn : Less man than Hangman Traitors shall not burn . What did Old Solon and Lycurgus do ? They went to Amsterdam , and died too . Whil'st Belgic Boor Thee and Thy Tap Entombs , And triumphs in the Brandy he assumes ; Boor , who ( in burying Thee ) hath done much more , Than Trump or Opdam , who were dead before ; Boor , with bright Spade , does more in Thy one Grave , Than in all Graves that his bright Spade e'r gave . Trick on , trick on , thou Will-with'-Wisp ! now make New Broils in Hell , and never Requiem take , With Plots and Popery keep the Devil awake . May Thy tormented Ghost walk a large round , And its deserved Punishment resound , Till Carolina shall aghasted stand , Mourning Kidnapper , who supply'd her Land : Let partial Whigs , through their false Optics , find Thy Worth , and ever be , like Thee , half blind . Let Factious Varlets monstrous forms suggest ; Such Ravens shall never croak i' th' Eagles Nes Rail on , Fanatics , vent your envious Gall , Your Toney's Tapping Arts have spoil'd you all ; From Meetinghouse dissolved Tubs shall throw , And sneaking Tubster send to th' Room below : Yes , Mouse-trap-man , Thy rotten Loins lay down ; Seducer of the Rabble , scorn o' th' Crown ; In Treach'rous Arts and Trayt'rous Hearts so learn'd , His weight all hands of Whimsy-boards still turn'd : To him Rebellion's Genius bent low ; The Thrones Friend , when at th' Helm , when not , its Foe . If the worst gifts Malignant Stars dispense , If misapplied strength of Wit and Sense , For lasting Infamy Foundations lay , No greater Kn --- was ever cloath'd in Clay ; His restless Orb of Shams went swiftly round , And none but Rascals his kind Influence found : His gentler Rays , and Life-creating heat , The Land of Whigs and Betty Morris me Th' unthinking Crowd he courted , and alone He dreamed to domineer i' th' British Zone . But , lost in his own Maze , he does engage , With eager Malice , and with lasting rage ; His Brain more hight than Copper-kettle boils , In Shops of Cooks about Py-corner-Piles . But Hells kind Call hath all his Consults crossed ; Hell , that hath plac'd him on a fiery Coast ; Through glass he peeps , and sees his Tricks and Trick-ers lost . EPITAPH . UNder this Stone does rotting lie All th' Devil has left of S --------- y : No Funeral Tears , nor weeping Eyes The melting Sisterhood denies ; While Mine-heer thinks his Death to be A joyful Brandy-Jubilee . A firmer Friend to PLOTS and Pride In Holland heretofore ne'r dy'd ; For which His Odious Name below , His Soul's above in Heaven . O no! It found no Lodging there , if He Speak Truth who always kept the Key : Adjudg'd to fit i' th' hottest Seat , The little Guest will do some Feat ; And a fresh Fire in Hell will light , To entertain the wand'ring Salamanca-Wight . LONDON , Printed Anno Domini , MDCLXXXIII . b And ELEGY On the Death of ( the much to be lamented ) Anthony King of Poland , THe busy Toney , who by Toil unblest Torments himself , to break his Countries' Rest ; Who , ceasing to be Engineer of State , Turn'd Rogue , yet could not turn the Wheels of Fate : Like Sysyphus , he rowls his Stone in vain ; Death plucks his Tap , and ends his PLOTS and Pain . The Graves long Pampus Rebels must pass o're ; Thence restless Rascals can return no more . Wretch of 3 Names farewell ! Thy Death's kind stretch , Secures Thee from the Sword and Axes reach ; Thy Life , Old Tricker , stood in Fate so high , That Hang-man's hand was fit to make Thee die ; Yes , Hangman only frames Thy Funeral Urn : Less man than Hangman Traitors shall not burn . What did Old Solon and Lycurgus do ? They went to Amsterdam , and died too . Whil'st Belgic Boor Thee and Thy Tap Entombs , And triumphs in the Brandy he assumes ; Boor , who ( in burying Thee ) hath done much more , Than Trump or Opdam , who were dead before ; Boor , with bright Spade , does more in Thy one Grave , Than in all Graves that his bright Spade e'r gave . Trick on , trick on , thou Will-with'-Wisp ! now make New Broils in Hell , and never Requiem take , With Plots and Popery keep the Devil awake . May Thy tormented Ghost walk a large round , And its deserved Punishment resound , Till Carolina shall aghasted stand , Mourning Kidnapper , who supply'd her Land : Let partial Whigs , through their false Optics , find Thy Worth , and ever be , like Thee , half blind . Let Factious Varlets monstrous forms suggest ; Such Ravens shall never croak i' th' Eagles Nes Rail on , Fanatics , vent your envious Gall , Your Toney's Tapping Arts have spoil'd you all ; From Meetinghouse dissolved Tubs shall throw , And sneaking Tubster send to th' Room below : Yes , Mouse-trap-man , Thy rotten Loins lay down ; Seducer of the Rabble , scorn o' th' Crown ; In Treach'rous Arts and Trayt'rous Hearts so learn'd , His weight all hands of Whimsy-boards still turn'd : To him Rebellion's Genius bent low ; The Thrones Friend , when at th' Helm , when not , its Foe . If the worst gifts Malignant Stars dispense , If misapplied strength of Wit and Sense , For lasting Infamy Foundations lay , No greater Kn --- was ever cloath'd in Clay ; His restless Orb of Shams went swiftly round , And none but Rascals his kind Influence found : His gentler Rays , and Life-creating heat , The Land of Whigs and Betty Morris me Th' unthinking Crowd he courted , and alone He dreamed to domineer i' th' British Zone . But , lost in his own Maze , he does engage , With eager Malice , and with lasting rage ; His Brain more hight than Copper-kettle boils , In Shops of Cooks about Py-corner-Piles . But Hells kind Call hath all his Consults crossed ; Hell , that hath plac'd him on a fiery Coast ; Through glass he peeps , and sees his Tricks and Trick-ers lost . EPITAPH . UNder this Stone does rotting lie All th' Devil has left of S --------- y : No Funeral Tears , nor weeping Eyes The melting Sisterhood denies ; While Mine-heer thinks his Death to be A joyful Brandy-Jubilee . A firmer Friend to PLOTS and Pride In Holland heretofore ne'r dy'd ; For which His Odious Name below , His Soul's above in Heaven . O no! It found no Lodging there , if He Speak Truth who always kept the Key : Adjudg'd to fit i' th' hottest Seat , The little Guest will do some Feat ; And a fresh Fire in Hell will light , To entertain the wand'ring Salamanca-Wight . LONDON , Printed Anno Domini , MDCLXXXIII . 