THE West-Country Maids advice ; Here is a Song I send to you , fair Maidens every one ; And you may say that it is true , when I am dead and gone . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys , up go we . FAir Maids draw near to me a while and I'le my mind declare , This song I hope will make you smile , when once you do it hear : For youngmen are so fickle grown , and false in every way , Their whole delight is day and night , fair Maids for to betray . Thus I would have fair Maidens all , for to be Rul'd by me , Although your portions be but small , to them do not agree : For if a husband once you you get , that should be cross to thee , You'l then repent that e're you went to Church to Married be . Therefore keep close your Maidenhead , which now you have in store , For if you once should be misled , you'l not enjoy it more : And then such troubles comes apace , as you ne'r thought upon , And this will be your woeful case , by taking of a man . There was a Maid which well I knew , was lately made a Bride , Her Father gave her goods , 'tis true , she a Portion had beside ; Yet this poor Lass did meet and Ass , would always scold and brawl , The other day he ran away , and left Wife , Child , and all . Therefore observe young Maidens all , take heed how you do wed , For you may quickly take a fallen , and bring a Knave to bed : For Youngmen are so fickle grown , as I have here expressed , It's good to let them all alone , a single life is best . I say , by chance that you may meet , a youngman that is true , Then you may count your Fortune great , because there are so few : Not one in ten , among youngmen , is true I do protest , I'le keep my self as I have been , a sing life is best . Why should a Maid confined be , to any man alive , You shall have Snaps and Flouts you'l find when once you'r made a Wife : For husbands are so Hoggish grown , there Wives shall take no rest , Therefore let all youngmen alone , a single life is best . And now I have declar'd my mind , I hope you'l not me blame , For to a Woman I am kind , and Toby is my name ; And I do live in Devon-Shire , to many 'tis well known , I wish all Maids that do me hear , besure to hold their own . And so I do conclude and end , having no more to say , Pray take the Author for your friend , and for this Ballad pay : A penny is the price of it , you'l say it is not dear , And say it is a Ballad true , came out of Devon-Shire . ' FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield THE West-Country Maids advice ; Here is a Song I send to you , fair Maidens every one ; And you may say that it is true , when I am dead and gone . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys , up go we . FAir Maids draw near to me a while and I'le my mind declare , This song I hope will make you smile , when once you do it hear : For youngmen are so fickle grown , and false in every way , Their whole delight is day and night , fair Maids for to betray . Thus I would have fair Maidens all , for to be Rul'd by me , Although your portions be but small , to them do not agree : For if a husband once you you get , that should be cross to thee , You'l then repent that e're you went to Church to Married be . Therefore keep close your Maidenhead , which now you have in store , For if you once should be misled , you'l not enjoy it more : And then such troubles comes apace , as you ne'r thought upon , And this will be your woeful case , by taking of a man . There was a Maid which well I knew , was lately made a Bride , Her Father gave her goods , 'tis true , she a Portion had beside ; Yet this poor Lass did meet and Ass , would always scold and brawl , The other day he ran away , and left Wife , Child , and all . Therefore observe young Maidens all , take heed how you do wed , For you may quickly take a fallen , and bring a Knave to bed : For Youngmen are so fickle grown , as I have here expressed , It's good to let them all alone , a single life is best . I say , by chance that you may meet , a youngman that is true , Then you may count your Fortune great , because there are so few : Not one in ten , among youngmen , is true I do protest , I'le keep my self as I have been , a sing life is best . Why should a Maid confined be , to any man alive , You shall have Snaps and Flouts you'l find when once you'r made a Wife : For husbands are so Hoggish grown , there Wives shall take no rest , Therefore let all youngmen alone , a single life is best . And now I have declar'd my mind , I hope you'l not me blame , For to a Woman I am kind , and Toby is my name ; And I do live in Devon-Shire , to many 'tis well known , I wish all Maids that do me hear , besure to hold their own . And so I do conclude and end , having no more to say , Pray take the Author for your friend , and for this Ballad pay : A penny is the price of it , you'l say it is not dear , And say it is a Ballad true , came out of Devon-Shire . ' FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield 