AND ODE ON HER ROYAL HIGHNESS THE Princess of Orange . Written at the Hague by a Person of Quality . BEGIN the Song , advance the Noble Strain , While Earth and Skies the Consort shall maintain ; Earth and Skies consent to raise the Bright Urania's Praise ; Since all that Earth and Skies have sweet , in Bright Urania meet ; 'Tis fit that Earth and Skies should be the Rivals of our Harmony , And in one joyful Choir the Divine Urania greet . Urania to the Stars does show What Beauty Crown'd with Piety can do ; How bright a Lustre it can take , how near Approaches make to their Celestial Day ; While she does more than mortal Beams display , and shines a Star below . Hark Hark how the British Coast to Belgia does resound , With her fair Presence blessed , as ours with Caesar's Crowned ; Each Wind and Wave in eager haste are lost , While for the happy Tidings they aspire , and of Urania's Health inquire ; Urania , Earth's Delight , Urania , Heav'ns Desire . If Piety and Royal Raze , In Heav'ns Protection have the chiefest place , What Wonders for Urania must it do , What Cherubims must guard the Saint and Princess too ! This Day be ever held Divine , The bright Restorer of the Royal Line . Let's sing the Hero of Conquering Arms , The Princess of conquering Charms , By Heav'n for each other prepar'd , Which to Crown their Deserts , United their hearts , And made them each others Reward . Live Urania , happy live , Enjoy those peaceful hours , The most auspicious Pow'rs , And kindest Planets give . Live Urania , happy live ; Let musical Dales , And the echoing Vales The triumphs of Beauty and Virtue rehearse , And Urania be ever the Theme of our Verse . FINIS . AND ODE ON HER ROYAL HIGHNESS THE Princess of Orange . Written at the Hague by a Person of Quality . BEGIN the Song , advance the Noble Strain , While Earth and Skies the Consort shall maintain ; Earth and Skies consent to raise the Bright Urania's Praise ; Since all that Earth and Skies have sweet , in Bright Urania meet ; 'Tis fit that Earth and Skies should be the Rivals of our Harmony , And in one joyful Choir the Divine Urania greet . Urania to the Stars does show What Beauty Crown'd with Piety can do ; How bright a Lustre it can take , how near Approaches make to their Celestial Day ; While she does more than mortal Beams display , and shines a Star below . Hark Hark how the British Coast to Belgia does resound , With her fair Presence blessed , as ours with Caesar's Crowned ; Each Wind and Wave in eager haste are lost , While for the happy Tidings they aspire , and of Urania's Health inquire ; Urania , Earth's Delight , Urania , Heav'ns Desire . If Piety and Royal Raze , In Heav'ns Protection have the chiefest place , What Wonders for Urania must it do , What Cherubims must guard the Saint and Princess too ! This Day be ever held Divine , The bright Restorer of the Royal Line . Let's sing the Hero of Conquering Arms , The Princess of conquering Charms , By Heav'n for each other prepar'd , Which to Crown their Deserts , United their hearts , And made them each others Reward . Live Urania , happy live , Enjoy those peaceful hours , The most auspicious Pow'rs , And kindest Planets give . Live Urania , happy live ; Let musical Dales , And the echoing Vales The triumphs of Beauty and Virtue rehearse , And Urania be ever the Theme of our Verse . FINIS . 