The Great Messenger of MORTALITY : Or , A Dialogue betwixt DEATH and a LADY . DEATH . FAIR Lady , lay your costly Robes aside , No longer may you glory in your Pride : Take Leave of all your carnal vain Delight , I'm come to summon you away this Night . LADY . What bold Attempt is this ? pray let me know , From whence you come , and whither I must go . Shall I , who am a Lady , stoop or bow To such a pale-faced Visage , Who art Thou ? DEATH . Do you not know me ? Well , I'll tell you then , 'Tis I that conquer all the Sons of Men . No Pitch of Honour from my Dart is free ; My Name is Death , have you not herd of me ? LADY . Yes , I have herd of thee , Time after Time , But being in the Glory of my Prime , I did not think you would have call'd so soon . Why must my Morning Sun go down at Noon ? DEATH . Talk not of Noon , you may as well be mute , This is no Time at all for to dispute . Your Riches , Jewels , Gold , and Garments brave ; Your Houses , Lands , must all new Master's have . Tho thy vain Heart to Riches was inclin'd , Yet thou must die , and leave them all behi LADY . My Heart is cold , I tremble at the News . Here's Bags of Gold , if thou wilt me excuse , And seize on those ( thus finish thou the Strife ) On such as are a weary of their Life . Are there not many bound in Prison strong , In bitter Grief of Soul have languish'd long , From all would find a Grave , a Place of Rest , From all their Grief , in which they are oppressed . Beside , there's many with their hoary Head , And Palsy Joints , by which their Joys are fled , Release thou them whose Sorrows are so great . But spare my Life to have a longer Date . DEATH . Tho' they by Age are full of Grief and Pain , Yet their appointed Time they must remain . I come to none before my Warrant's seal'd , And when it is , they must submit and yield . I take no Bribe , believe me , this is true , Prepare yourself to go , I come for you . LADY . Death , be not so severe , let me obtain A little longer Time to live and reign . Fain would I stay , if thou my Life wilt spare , I have a Daughter beautiful and fair , I'd live to see her wed , whom I adore . Grant me but this , and I will ask no more . DEATH . This is a slender frivolous Excuse . I have you fast , and will not let you lose . Leave her to Providence , for you must go Along with me , whither you will or no . I , Death , command Kings to leave their Crowns , And at my Feet they lay their Sceptres down . If unto Kings this Favour I not give , But cut them off , can you expect to live ? Beyond the Limit of your Time and Space ? No , I must send you to another Place . LADY . You learned Doctors , now express your Skill , And let not Death of me obtain his Will . Prepare your Cordials , let me Comfort find , My Gold shall fly like Chaff before the Wind. DEATH . Forbear to call , their Skill will never do , They are but Mortals here , as well as you . I give the fatal Wound , my Dart is sure , 'Tis far beyond the Doctor's Skill to cure . How freely can you let your Riches fly . To purchase Death , rather than yield to die . But while you flourish'd here in all your Store , You would not give one Penny to the Poor , Tho' in God's Name they Suit to you did make , You would not spare one Penny for his Sake . My Lord beheld wherein you did amiss , And calls you hence to give Account for this . LADY . O , heavy News ! must I no longer stay ? How shall I stand in the great Judgement Day ? Down from her Eyes the crystal Tears did flow , She said , None knows what I do undergo . Upon a Bed of Sorrow here I lie , My carnal Life makes me afraid to die . My Sins , alas ! are many , gross , and foul . Lord Jesus Christ have Mercy on my Soul. And tho' I do deserve thy righteous Frown , Yet pardon , Lord , and pour a Blessing down . Then with a dying Sighs her Heart did break , And did the Pleasures of this World forsake . Thus may we see the High and Mighty fallen For cruel Death shows no Respect at all , To any one of high or low Degree . Great Men submit to Death as well as we . Tho' they are gay , their Lives are but a Span. A Lump of Clay , so vile a Creature's Marl Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London The Great Messenger of MORTALITY : Or , A Dialogue betwixt DEATH and a LADY . DEATH . FAIR Lady , lay your costly Robes aside , No longer may you glory in your Pride : Take Leave of all your carnal vain Delight , I'm come to summon you away this Night . LADY . What bold Attempt is this ? pray let me know , From whence you come , and whither I must go . Shall I , who am a Lady , stoop or bow To such a pale-faced Visage , Who art Thou ? DEATH . Do you not know me ? Well , I'll tell you then , 'Tis I that conquer all the Sons of Men . No Pitch of Honour from my Dart is free ; My Name is Death , have you not herd of me ? LADY . Yes , I have herd of thee , Time after Time , But being in the Glory of my Prime , I did not think you would have call'd so soon . Why must my Morning Sun go down at Noon ? DEATH . Talk not of Noon , you may as well be mute , This is no Time at all for to dispute . Your Riches , Jewels , Gold , and Garments brave ; Your Houses , Lands , must all new Master's have . Tho thy vain Heart to Riches was inclin'd , Yet thou must die , and leave them all behi LADY . My Heart is cold , I tremble at the News . Here's Bags of Gold , if thou wilt me excuse , And seize on those ( thus finish thou the Strife ) On such as are a weary of their Life . Are there not many bound in Prison strong , In bitter Grief of Soul have languish'd long , From all would find a Grave , a Place of Rest , From all their Grief , in which they are oppressed . Beside , there's many with their hoary Head , And Palsy Joints , by which their Joys are fled , Release thou them whose Sorrows are so great . But spare my Life to have a longer Date . DEATH . Tho' they by Age are full of Grief and Pain , Yet their appointed Time they must remain . I come to none before my Warrant's seal'd , And when it is , they must submit and yield . I take no Bribe , believe me , this is true , Prepare yourself to go , I come for you . LADY . Death , be not so severe , let me obtain A little longer Time to live and reign . Fain would I stay , if thou my Life wilt spare , I have a Daughter beautiful and fair , I'd live to see her wed , whom I adore . Grant me but this , and I will ask no more . DEATH . This is a slender frivolous Excuse . I have you fast , and will not let you lose . Leave her to Providence , for you must go Along with me , whither you will or no . I , Death , command Kings to leave their Crowns , And at my Feet they lay their Sceptres down . If unto Kings this Favour I not give , But cut them off , can you expect to live ? Beyond the Limit of your Time and Space ? No , I must send you to another Place . LADY . You learned Doctors , now express your Skill , And let not Death of me obtain his Will . Prepare your Cordials , let me Comfort find , My Gold shall fly like Chaff before the Wind. DEATH . Forbear to call , their Skill will never do , They are but Mortals here , as well as you . I give the fatal Wound , my Dart is sure , 'Tis far beyond the Doctor's Skill to cure . How freely can you let your Riches fly . To purchase Death , rather than yield to die . But while you flourish'd here in all your Store , You would not give one Penny to the Poor , Tho' in God's Name they Suit to you did make , You would not spare one Penny for his Sake . My Lord beheld wherein you did amiss , And calls you hence to give Account for this . LADY . O , heavy News ! must I no longer stay ? How shall I stand in the great Judgement Day ? Down from her Eyes the crystal Tears did flow , She said , None knows what I do undergo . Upon a Bed of Sorrow here I lie , My carnal Life makes me afraid to die . My Sins , alas ! are many , gross , and foul . Lord Jesus Christ have Mercy on my Soul. And tho' I do deserve thy righteous Frown , Yet pardon , Lord , and pour a Blessing down . Then with a dying Sighs her Heart did break , And did the Pleasures of this World forsake . Thus may we see the High and Mighty fallen For cruel Death shows no Respect at all , To any one of high or low Degree . Great Men submit to Death as well as we . Tho' they are gay , their Lives are but a Span. A Lump of Clay , so vile a Creature's Marl Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London 