The Soldier his Salutation to the wary Wench of Worcester , Who kindly intreats her to grant him a kiss , Also her Denial , in answer to this . To a pleasant Scottish Tune , call'd Lowdens Delight . FAir Venus , I admire the power of thy Son , No sooner to give fire but straight the day is wone . He'l undertake the God of war to fame , If against his bosom right be aim , Folly were it to resist the flame wherein I fry Sweet Lady pity My mournful Ditty do not deny To kiss thy captive Soldier Or else for grief I die . I'll change my coat and colours , to go along with thee : No more of Mars his followers henceforwards will I be I am ever bound to be thy slave Till thou grants to me the thing I crave 'Tis thy favour I desire to have then cure my pain O now or never , Else captive ever shall I remain , My heart is deeply wounded But yet I am not slave . How canst thou choose but fancy a Soldier so complete ? whose fortune's may advance thee and make thy honour great I pray thee do not then so cruel prove , For my heart I cannot yet remove , More thou hates , the more I'm bound to love , thine I am still O fie on Cupid , Which made me stupid for want of skill I now must be contented , To serve thee at thy will . In truth I know no reason but I may be so bold To kiss that lovely Prison which keeps my heart in hold . More cruel than a Gaoler would she be That denies me of my liberty . If a kiss or two would set me free or ease my smart Do not absent thee Nor thus torment me , since that thou art The Prison and the Keeper , Of my imprisoned heart . The second part , to the same Tune COme , come , do not refuse it , but let us now embrace For once and do not use it none sees us in this place , It's in thy power , with a smile or frown For to raise me up or cast me down : Let thy penalty on me be known , be it weal or woe Come kill or cure What I endure no man does know . And then farewell for ever , My friend , or cruel foe . Farewell , there is no duty nor service due to me Then tell her not of beauty where none is plac'd you see . Do not then on Cupid thus complain Unto her that cannot ease thy pain , Neither will I be of Venus train I am afraid Thou dost but flatter Faith no such matter , shall me persuade I will not kiss a Soldier Lest that I be betrayed Change not thy coat nor colours to tarry hear with me Good Soldiers by their Valours , will first approved be Never say thou art a slave of mine Nor anything I have of thine , Rather shalt thou dig the grave of mine here in this place Ere thou shalt woo me So to undo me , fie it is base To bring poor Country Lasses Unto such foul disgrace . In London you have plenty , why would you come away ? I warrant you there's twenty would never say you nay . If to them thou wilt not constant be , When another thou dost chance to see , Thy affection soon will glance from me and further range Men once removers , Then constant Lovers it is most strange . To find a faithful Soldier Not subject unto change . Why cal'st thou me thy prison or Gaolor which am none ? If that be all the reason I pray thee now be gone . For there is no harbour in my breast To be granted to so bold a guest Neither will I yield to thy request therefore in vain Is thy intrusion By no delusion thou shalt obtain From me thy found desire My honour so to stain . Go , go or else forbear me faith I will never yield , Thy captain he'l cashier thee haste haste into the field , lest thy absence breed thee more disgrace By thy doting on a maiden face For the losing of thy Soldiers place would be a shame Haste now or never Else Coward ever they'l thee proclaim . To lose so great and honour By following Venus Game . FINIS . The Soldier his Salutation to the wary Wench of Worcester , Who kindly intreats her to grant him a kiss , Also her Denial , in answer to this . To a pleasant Scottish Tune , call'd Lowdens Delight . FAir Venus , I admire the power of thy Son , No sooner to give fire but straight the day is wone . He'l undertake the God of war to fame , If against his bosom right be aim , Folly were it to resist the flame wherein I fry Sweet Lady pity My mournful Ditty do not deny To kiss thy captive Soldier Or else for grief I die . I'll change my coat and colours , to go along with thee : No more of Mars his followers henceforwards will I be I am ever bound to be thy slave Till thou grants to me the thing I crave 'Tis thy favour I desire to have then cure my pain O now or never , Else captive ever shall I remain , My heart is deeply wounded But yet I am not slave . How canst thou choose but fancy a Soldier so complete ? whose fortune's may advance thee and make thy honour great I pray thee do not then so cruel prove , For my heart I cannot yet remove , More thou hates , the more I'm bound to love , thine I am still O fie on Cupid , Which made me stupid for want of skill I now must be contented , To serve thee at thy will . In truth I know no reason but I may be so bold To kiss that lovely Prison which keeps my heart in hold . More cruel than a Gaoler would she be That denies me of my liberty . If a kiss or two would set me free or ease my smart Do not absent thee Nor thus torment me , since that thou art The Prison and the Keeper , Of my imprisoned heart . The second part , to the same Tune COme , come , do not refuse it , but let us now embrace For once and do not use it none sees us in this place , It's in thy power , with a smile or frown For to raise me up or cast me down : Let thy penalty on me be known , be it weal or woe Come kill or cure What I endure no man does know . And then farewell for ever , My friend , or cruel foe . Farewell , there is no duty nor service due to me Then tell her not of beauty where none is plac'd you see . Do not then on Cupid thus complain Unto her that cannot ease thy pain , Neither will I be of Venus train I am afraid Thou dost but flatter Faith no such matter , shall me persuade I will not kiss a Soldier Lest that I be betrayed Change not thy coat nor colours to tarry hear with me Good Soldiers by their Valours , will first approved be Never say thou art a slave of mine Nor anything I have of thine , Rather shalt thou dig the grave of mine here in this place Ere thou shalt woo me So to undo me , fie it is base To bring poor Country Lasses Unto such foul disgrace . In London you have plenty , why would you come away ? I warrant you there's twenty would never say you nay . If to them thou wilt not constant be , When another thou dost chance to see , Thy affection soon will glance from me and further range Men once removers , Then constant Lovers it is most strange . To find a faithful Soldier Not subject unto change . Why cal'st thou me thy prison or Gaolor which am none ? If that be all the reason I pray thee now be gone . For there is no harbour in my breast To be granted to so bold a guest Neither will I yield to thy request therefore in vain Is thy intrusion By no delusion thou shalt obtain From me thy found desire My honour so to stain . Go , go or else forbear me faith I will never yield , Thy captain he'l cashier thee haste haste into the field , lest thy absence breed thee more disgrace By thy doting on a maiden face For the losing of thy Soldiers place would be a shame Haste now or never Else Coward ever they'l thee proclaim . To lose so great and honour By following Venus Game . FINIS . 