THE Kentish Tragedy ; OR , EDWARD AND HANNAH . AND AFFECTING TALE . London : Printed and sold by J. and C. EVANS , Long-lane . BESIDE a pleasant hill in Kent , Hard by a purling stream , The sweet and peaceful cottage stood Of lovely Hannah Dean . A charming prospect open'd here , No building inerfer'd , Save where the ancient village Church With lofty spire appear'd . Around the cot on ev'ry side , The lowing heard were seen --- Where oft the little lambs would play , That graz'd upon the green . On such a residence as this , The proud might envious look ! There Hannah's days pass'd quiet by --- So glides the gentle brook . Unto this Cottage of Content , ( 'Twas known as such by name ) Young Edward Lawson of the vale , To visit often came . And Hannah , who had found in him A friend both kind and true , A friend that always stood by her , Whatever might ensue --- With pleasure herd his tale of love , Tho' in and artless strain , Without mistrust , for she perceiv'd His actions spoke the same ; Her parents' too their sanction gave To Edward's visits here ; And these good people welcom'd him Whene'er he did appear . When thus some years had roll'd away , And prov'd their love sincere , Edward obtain'd his friends consent , To wed with Hannah dear . The day arriv'd --- the knot was ty'd --- All things were manag'd well ; And ev'ry one who near 'em liv'd , Their praises oft would tell . It was and union rare indeed , Such as are seldom found ; And long they prov'd domestic love Was not and empty found ! Yet tho' thus early they were blessed , And had a friend in need , They thought upon the source from whence Those blessings did proceed . Their grateful praises , morn and eve T'ward heaven did ascend , To that good Being , who requires We should in homage bend . Thus Edward and his Hannah liv'd , As married people ought ; And thus they saw , the choice they made Had not been dearly bought . One ev'ning , as the bell toll'd nine , ( The village noise had ceas'd ) Hannah , still finding Edward stay'd , Her fears were much increas'd ; For now the hour had long gone by When she expected him ; And while she mus'd upon the same , Her eyes with tears did swim . It was November's dreary month , And cold and dark the night ; The rain incessantly did fallen , Which much did her affright . Bleak blew the howling tempest too , The wind did loudly roar , And sleet and snow together mix'd , Beatrice hard against the door . Poor Hannah's fears , amid the storm , Alternate then arose ; And almost frantic with despair , To seek her husband goes ! All things around her gloomy were When she unlatch'd the door , And now the dreadful hurricane Blew louder than before . Just as she clos'd the cottage-gate , The village clock struck twelve --- It broke so sudden on her ears , That down with fear she fell . When she recover'd from the fright , The wind had spent its force ; Anon she passed thro' the vale , And onward bent her course . Regardless what might next ensue , She too her purpose stood ; And in the way she took , must pass Close by a lonesome wood ! Her courage then had almost gone , For as she pass'd alone , A human voice she plainly herd Send forth a dismal groan ! She paus'd , to listen whence it came , Convinc'd her cause was good : And now , with trembling steps advanc'd Much nearer to the wood . Ah! hapless woman , soon she finds 'Twas Edward's self that sigh'd ; She knew his voice --- 'twas no mistake --- And loud for help he cry'd ! In this perplexing state of things , And fearful of his doom , She hasten'd to the dismal spot , Thro' the deep midnight gloom ! She found him in a dreadful state , On the damp earth he lay ; His body cover'd o'er with wounds , The cause of his delay . Two villains , who had robb'd him there On his returning home , Had try'd to take away his life , Thinking 'twould not be known ; But he resisted manfully , And made the robbers fly , Tho' they had wounded him so much , He thought he soon should die . Poor Hannah's heart was nearly broke To hear her Edward moan ; And now the reason plain appear'd That kept him from his home . A surgeon quickly she procur'd , Fearing the consequence ; Assistance also was obtain'd , And straight they boar him hence . Fair Hannah watch'd his dying couch With unremitting care , And by th' attention which she paid , Shew'd and example rare . But tho' the greatest pains were took His senses to restore , Yet shortly after he expir'd , Which grieved Hannah soar . Her sorrow now no tongue can tell , To find the hope's were fled That she indulg'd , until her spouse Was number'd with the dead . She never rais'd her head again After her husband's death , But pin'd in secret two long years And then resign'd her breath ! --- The moral which this tale supplies , May be compris'd in this --- Ever to be prepar'd for death , And look for greater bliss , Than what this changing world affords , Where pleasure's mix'd with pain --- Where 'ev'ry beating pulse we tell , ' Warns us to heed the same . THE Kentish Tragedy ; OR , EDWARD AND HANNAH . AND AFFECTING TALE . London : Printed and sold by J. and C. EVANS , Long-lane . BESIDE a pleasant hill in Kent , Hard by a purling stream , The sweet and peaceful cottage stood Of lovely Hannah Dean . A charming prospect open'd here , No building inerfer'd , Save where the ancient village Church With lofty spire appear'd . Around the cot on ev'ry side , The lowing heard were seen --- Where oft the little lambs would play , That graz'd upon the green . On such a residence as this , The proud might envious look ! There Hannah's days pass'd quiet by --- So glides the gentle brook . Unto this Cottage of Content , ( 'Twas known as such by name ) Young Edward Lawson of the vale , To visit often came . And Hannah , who had found in him A friend both kind and true , A friend that always stood by her , Whatever might ensue --- With pleasure herd his tale of love , Tho' in and artless strain , Without mistrust , for she perceiv'd His actions spoke the same ; Her parents' too their sanction gave To Edward's visits here ; And these good people welcom'd him Whene'er he did appear . When thus some years had roll'd away , And prov'd their love sincere , Edward obtain'd his friends consent , To wed with Hannah dear . The day arriv'd --- the knot was ty'd --- All things were manag'd well ; And ev'ry one who near 'em liv'd , Their praises oft would tell . It was and union rare indeed , Such as are seldom found ; And long they prov'd domestic love Was not and empty found ! Yet tho' thus early they were blessed , And had a friend in need , They thought upon the source from whence Those blessings did proceed . Their grateful praises , morn and eve T'ward heaven did ascend , To that good Being , who requires We should in homage bend . Thus Edward and his Hannah liv'd , As married people ought ; And thus they saw , the choice they made Had not been dearly bought . One ev'ning , as the bell toll'd nine , ( The village noise had ceas'd ) Hannah , still finding Edward stay'd , Her fears were much increas'd ; For now the hour had long gone by When she expected him ; And while she mus'd upon the same , Her eyes with tears did swim . It was November's dreary month , And cold and dark the night ; The rain incessantly did fallen , Which much did her affright . Bleak blew the howling tempest too , The wind did loudly roar , And sleet and snow together mix'd , Beatrice hard against the door . Poor Hannah's fears , amid the storm , Alternate then arose ; And almost frantic with despair , To seek her husband goes ! All things around her gloomy were When she unlatch'd the door , And now the dreadful hurricane Blew louder than before . Just as she clos'd the cottage-gate , The village clock struck twelve --- It broke so sudden on her ears , That down with fear she fell . When she recover'd from the fright , The wind had spent its force ; Anon she passed thro' the vale , And onward bent her course . Regardless what might next ensue , She too her purpose stood ; And in the way she took , must pass Close by a lonesome wood ! Her courage then had almost gone , For as she pass'd alone , A human voice she plainly herd Send forth a dismal groan ! She paus'd , to listen whence it came , Convinc'd her cause was good : And now , with trembling steps advanc'd Much nearer to the wood . Ah! hapless woman , soon she finds 'Twas Edward's self that sigh'd ; She knew his voice --- 'twas no mistake --- And loud for help he cry'd ! In this perplexing state of things , And fearful of his doom , She hasten'd to the dismal spot , Thro' the deep midnight gloom ! She found him in a dreadful state , On the damp earth he lay ; His body cover'd o'er with wounds , The cause of his delay . Two villains , who had robb'd him there On his returning home , Had try'd to take away his life , Thinking 'twould not be known ; But he resisted manfully , And made the robbers fly , Tho' they had wounded him so much , He thought he soon should die . Poor Hannah's heart was nearly broke To hear her Edward moan ; And now the reason plain appear'd That kept him from his home . A surgeon quickly she procur'd , Fearing the consequence ; Assistance also was obtain'd , And straight they boar him hence . Fair Hannah watch'd his dying couch With unremitting care , And by th' attention which she paid , Shew'd and example rare . But tho' the greatest pains were took His senses to restore , Yet shortly after he expir'd , Which grieved Hannah soar . Her sorrow now no tongue can tell , To find the hope's were fled That she indulg'd , until her spouse Was number'd with the dead . She never rais'd her head again After her husband's death , But pin'd in secret two long years And then resign'd her breath ! --- The moral which this tale supplies , May be compris'd in this --- Ever to be prepar'd for death , And look for greater bliss , Than what this changing world affords , Where pleasure's mix'd with pain --- Where 'ev'ry beating pulse we tell , ' Warns us to heed the same . 