Fair MAUDLIN , The Merchant's Daughter of BRISTOL . BEHOLD the touchstone of true love , Maudlin the merchant's daughter of Bristol-town Whose firm affection nothing could move ; Her favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , Who long had boar this maiden great good will , She loved him most faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still . The young man now perceiving well , He could not get the favour of her friends , The force of sorrow to expel And view strange countries he intends . And now to take his last farewell Of his true love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With music sweet that did excel He play'd under her window then , Farewell , quoth he , my own true love , Farewell , the dear and chiefest treasure of my heart , Tho' Fortune's spite , that false did prove , I am enforc'd from thee to part . Into the land of fair Italy , There will I travel and weary out my life in woe . Seeing my true love is kept from me , I hold my life a mortal foe . Fair Bristol town , therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Altho' my love dost rest in you , To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , Sighs and sobs descending from his heart full soar . He said , when he his hands did wring , Farewell , sweet love , for everm [ oh ] re . Fair Maudlin from a window high , She herd her true love with music where he stood , But not a word she did reply , Fearing her parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , Wishing herself , tho' naked , with her friend ; She blames he [ r ] friends , and fortune's spite . That wrought her love such luckless end . And in her heart she made a vow , To forsake her c [ oh ] untry and ki [ n ] dreaded all , And for to follow her true love , To abide all chance that might befall . The night is gone , and the day is come , And in the morning very early she did arise , She get her down into a lower room , Where sundry seaman she espies . A gallant master among them all , The master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there were waiting in the hall , To speak with her father , if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good s [ i ] r said she , would you speak with any here ? Quoth he , Fair maid , and therefo [ r ] e do I stand . Then gentle sir , I pray draw near . Into a pleasant parlour by , Hanh in hand she brings the seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteous , She thus to him did make her moan : She fell [ l ] upon her bent knee , [ Good sir , ] said she , pity a woman's woe . And prove a faithful friend to me . That I to you my griei may show . Sith you repose your trust , he said , In me unknown , and eke a stranger here . Be you assur'd , most beauteous maid , Most faithful still I will appear . I have a brother , then quoth she , Whom as my life I love , and favour tenderly . In Padua , alas ! is he , Full sick , God wot , and like to die Full fain I would my brother see , But that my father will not yield to let me go . Therefore , kind sir , be kind to me , And unto me this favour show . Some ship-boy's garment bring to me , That I disguis'd may go unknown , And unto sea I'll go with thee , If so much favour might be shown . Fair maid , quo [ tO ] h he , take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire . And see you safe in that same land , And in the place that you require . She gave to him a tender kiss , And said , Your servant , master , I will be . And prove your faithful friend for this ; Sweet , then forget not me . This done , as they had both agreed , Soon after that , by break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , Therein herself she did array And e'er her father did arise , She meets her master as he walked in the hall . She did attend on him likewise , Until her father did him call . But here the merchant made and end . Of those his weighty matters all that day , His wife came weeping in with speed , Saying our daughter's gone away . The merchant then amaz'd in mind . Yonder vile wretch entic'd our child away . But I well wot , I shall him find , In Italy , ot Padua . With that bespoke the master brave , Worshipful merchant , thither goes this youth . And any thing that you would have , He will perform , and write the truth . Sweet youth , quoth he , if it be so , Bear me a letter to the English there , And gold on thee I will bestow : My daughter's welfare I do fear . Her mother took her by the hand . Fair youth , if e'er thou dost my daughter see , Let me soon thereof understand , And there is twenty crowns for thee Thus thro' the daughter's strange disguise Her mother knew not when she spoke unto her child . Then after her master strait she hies , Taking her leave with countenance mild . Thus to the sea Sweet Maudlin is gone , With her gentle master ; God send fair wind ! Where we awile must leave them all alone , 'Till you the second part do find . PART II WELCOME , sweet Maudlin , from the sea Where bitter storms and tempests do arise The pleasant banks of Italy You may behold with mortal eyes . Thanks , gentle master , then said she , A faithful friend in sorrow thou hast been : If fortune once do fallen on me , My gratitude shall soon be seen . Blessed be the land that feeds my love , Blessed be the place wherein he does abide , No trial will I stick to prove , Whereby my true love may be try'd . Now will I walk with joyful heart , To view the town wherein he does remain . And seek him out in every part , Until his fight I do obtain . And I , quoth he , will not forsake Sweet Maudlin in her sorrows --- Up and down , In wealth or woe thy part I'll take , And bring thee safe to Padua town . And after many weary steps ! In Padua they arriv'd at las For very joy her heart it leaps , She thinks not on her sorrows past . Condemned he was to die alas ! Except he would from his religion turn , But rather than he would to mass , In firy flames he chosen to burn . Now does sweet Naudlin weep and wail . Her joy is turn'd to sorrow , grief , and care . For nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share . She walks under the prison walls Where her true love did languish in distress . Then woefully for food he calls , When hunger did hls heaart oppress . He sighs and sobs and makes great moan , Farewell , Sweet heart , he cry'd , for evermore , And all my friends that I have known , In Bristol town with wealth and store . For most of all , farewell , quoth he , My own sweet Maudlin , whom I left behind . For never more thou wilt me see , Woe to thy father most unkind . How well I were if thou wertenberg here , With thy fair hands to close my wretched eyes , My torments easy would appear , My soul with joy would scale the skies . When Maudlin herd her lovers moan , Her eyes with tears , her heart soon filled was , To speak with him no means was found , Such grievous doom did on him pass . Then she put off her lads attire . Her maiden-weeds upon her seemly set . At the judge's house she did inquire , And there she did a service get , She did her service there so well , And eke so well herself she did behave , With her in love her master fell , His servant's favour he does crave . Maudlin , quoth he , my heart's delight , To whom my soul is so inclin'd . Breed not my death , thro' thy dispright ; A faithful friend thou shalt me find . Grant me thy love , fair maid , quoth he , And then desire what thou canst devise , And I will grant it unto thee , Whereby thy credit may arise . I have a brother , sir , she said , For his religion is condemned to die , In loathsome prison he is laid , Oppress'd with grief and misery . Grant me my brother's life , she said , And now to you my love and liking I will give That may not be , quoth he , fair maid ; Unless he turn he cannot live . And English friar , there is , she said , Of learning great , and passing pure of life , Let him to my brother be sent , And he will finish soon the strife . Her master granted her request , The mariner in friar's weeds she did array , And to her love that lay distressed , She did a letter soon convey . When he had read these gentle lines , His heart was ravish'd with pleasant joy : Where now he is full well he knew ; The friar likewise was not coy . But did declare to him at large The enterprise his love had taken in hand The young man did the friar charge His love should strait depart the land . Here is no place for her , he said , But wooful death and danger of her life . Professing truth I was betray'd , And Fair MAUDLIN , The Merchant's Daughter of BRISTOL . BEHOLD the touchstone of true love , Maudlin the merchant's daughter of Bristol-town Whose firm affection nothing could move ; Her favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , Who long had boar this maiden great good will , She loved him most faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still . The young man now perceiving well , He could not get the favour of her friends , The force of sorrow to expel And view strange countries he intends . And now to take his last farewell Of his true love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With music sweet that did excel He play'd under her window then , Farewell , quoth he , my own true love , Farewell , the dear and chiefest treasure of my heart , Tho' Fortune's spite , that false did prove , I am enforc'd from thee to part . Into the land of fair Italy , There will I travel and weary out my life in woe . Seeing my true love is kept from me , I hold my life a mortal foe . Fair Bristol town , therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Altho' my love dost rest in you , To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears thus did he sing , Sighs and sobs descending from his heart full soar . He said , when he his hands did wring , Farewell , sweet love , for everm [ oh ] re . Fair Maudlin from a window high , She herd her true love with music where he stood , But not a word she did reply , Fearing her parents angry mood . In tears she spent that woeful night , Wishing herself , tho' naked , with her friend ; She blames he [ r ] friends , and fortune's spite . That wrought her love such luckless end . And in her heart she made a vow , To forsake her c [ oh ] untry and ki [ n ] dreaded all , And for to follow her true love , To abide all chance that might befall . The night is gone , and the day is come , And in the morning very early she did arise , She get her down into a lower room , Where sundry seaman she espies . A gallant master among them all , The master of a great and goodly ship was he , Who there were waiting in the hall , To speak with her father , if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good s [ i ] r said she , would you speak with any here ? Quoth he , Fair maid , and therefo [ r ] e do I stand . Then gentle sir , I pray draw near . Into a pleasant parlour by , Hanh in hand she brings the seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteous , She thus to him did make her moan : She fell [ l ] upon her bent knee , [ Good sir , ] said she , pity a woman's woe . And prove a faithful friend to me . That I to you my griei may show . Sith you repose your trust , he said , In me unknown , and eke a stranger here . Be you assur'd , most beauteous maid , Most faithful still I will appear . I have a brother , then quoth she , Whom as my life I love , and favour tenderly . In Padua , alas ! is he , Full sick , God wot , and like to die Full fain I would my brother see , But that my father will not yield to let me go . Therefore , kind sir , be kind to me , And unto me this favour show . Some ship-boy's garment bring to me , That I disguis'd may go unknown , And unto sea I'll go with thee , If so much favour might be shown . Fair maid , quo [ tO ] h he , take here my hand , I will fulfil each thing that you desire . And see you safe in that same land , And in the place that you require . She gave to him a tender kiss , And said , Your servant , master , I will be . And prove your faithful friend for this ; Sweet , then forget not me . This done , as they had both agreed , Soon after that , by break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , Therein herself she did array And e'er her father did arise , She meets her master as he walked in the hall . She did attend on him likewise , Until her father did him call . But here the merchant made and end . Of those his weighty matters all that day , His wife came weeping in with speed , Saying our daughter's gone away . The merchant then amaz'd in mind . Yonder vile wretch entic'd our child away . But I well wot , I shall him find , In Italy , ot Padua . With that bespoke the master brave , Worshipful merchant , thither goes this youth . And any thing that you would have , He will perform , and write the truth . Sweet youth , quoth he , if it be so , Bear me a letter to the English there , And gold on thee I will bestow : My daughter's welfare I do fear . Her mother took her by the hand . Fair youth , if e'er thou dost my daughter see , Let me soon thereof understand , And there is twenty crowns for thee Thus thro' the daughter's strange disguise Her mother knew not when she spoke unto her child . Then after her master strait she hies , Taking her leave with countenance mild . Thus to the sea Sweet Maudlin is gone , With her gentle master ; God send fair wind ! Where we awile must leave them all alone , 'Till you the second part do find . PART II WELCOME , sweet Maudlin , from the sea Where bitter storms and tempests do arise The pleasant banks of Italy You may behold with mortal eyes . Thanks , gentle master , then said she , A faithful friend in sorrow thou hast been : If fortune once do fallen on me , My gratitude shall soon be seen . Blessed be the land that feeds my love , Blessed be the place wherein he does abide , No trial will I stick to prove , Whereby my true love may be try'd . Now will I walk with joyful heart , To view the town wherein he does remain . And seek him out in every part , Until his fight I do obtain . And I , quoth he , will not forsake Sweet Maudlin in her sorrows --- Up and down , In wealth or woe thy part I'll take , And bring thee safe to Padua town . And after many weary steps ! In Padua they arriv'd at las For very joy her heart it leaps , She thinks not on her sorrows past . Condemned he was to die alas ! Except he would from his religion turn , But rather than he would to mass , In firy flames he chosen to burn . Now does sweet Naudlin weep and wail . Her joy is turn'd to sorrow , grief , and care . For nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share . She walks under the prison walls Where her true love did languish in distress . Then woefully for food he calls , When hunger did hls heaart oppress . He sighs and sobs and makes great moan , Farewell , Sweet heart , he cry'd , for evermore , And all my friends that I have known , In Bristol town with wealth and store . For most of all , farewell , quoth he , My own sweet Maudlin , whom I left behind . For never more thou wilt me see , Woe to thy father most unkind . How well I were if thou wertenberg here , With thy fair hands to close my wretched eyes , My torments easy would appear , My soul with joy would scale the skies . When Maudlin herd her lovers moan , Her eyes with tears , her heart soon filled was , To speak with him no means was found , Such grievous doom did on him pass . Then she put off her lads attire . Her maiden-weeds upon her seemly set . At the judge's house she did inquire , And there she did a service get , She did her service there so well , And eke so well herself she did behave , With her in love her master fell , His servant's favour he does crave . Maudlin , quoth he , my heart's delight , To whom my soul is so inclin'd . Breed not my death , thro' thy dispright ; A faithful friend thou shalt me find . Grant me thy love , fair maid , quoth he , And then desire what thou canst devise , And I will grant it unto thee , Whereby thy credit may arise . I have a brother , sir , she said , For his religion is condemned to die , In loathsome prison he is laid , Oppress'd with grief and misery . Grant me my brother's life , she said , And now to you my love and liking I will give That may not be , quoth he , fair maid ; Unless he turn he cannot live . And English friar , there is , she said , Of learning great , and passing pure of life , Let him to my brother be sent , And he will finish soon the strife . Her master granted her request , The mariner in friar's weeds she did array , And to her love that lay distressed , She did a letter soon convey . When he had read these gentle lines , His heart was ravish'd with pleasant joy : Where now he is full well he knew ; The friar likewise was not coy . But did declare to him at large The enterprise his love had taken in hand The young man did the friar charge His love should strait depart the land . Here is no place for her , he said , But wooful death and danger of her life . Professing truth I was betray'd , And fearful flames must end the strife . For ere I will my faith deny , And swear myself to follow damn'd Antichrist , I'll yield my body for to die , To live in heaven with the highest . Oh! sir , the gentle friar said , Consent thereto , and end the strife . A woeful match is made , quoth he . Where Christ is left to gain a wife . When she had us'd all means she might , To save his life , yet it would not be ; Then of the judge she claim'd her r [ i ] ght , To die the death as well sshe . When no persuasion could prevail , To change her mind in anything she said , She with him was condemned to worser [ i ] e , And for them both one fire was made . Yet , arm in arm most joyfully These lovers twain unto the fire did go . The mariner most faithfully Was likewise partner of their woe . But when the judges understood That faithful friendship did in them remain , They sav'd their lives , and afterwards To England sent them back again . Now was their sorrow turn'd to joy , And faithful lovers have their hearts desire . Their pain so well they did employ , God granted that they did desire . And when they did to England come , And in merry Bristol arriv'd at last , Great joy there was to all and some , They herd the dangers they had passed . Her father he was dead , God wot , And her old mother was joyful at her sighed . Their wishes she denied not , But wedded them to their [ h ] eart's deligh , Her gentle master he desired , To be her father , and at church to give her then It was fulfilled as she required , To the joy of all good men . Printed and sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . fearful flames must end the strife . For ere I will my faith deny , And swear myself to follow damn'd Antichrist , I'll yield my body for to die , To live in heaven with the highest . Oh! sir , the gentle friar said , Consent thereto , and end the strife . A woeful match is made , quoth he . Where Christ is left to gain a wife . When she had us'd all means she might , To save his life , yet it would not be ; Then of the judge she claim'd her r [ i ] ght , To die the death as well sshe . When no persuasion could prevail , To change her mind in anything she said , She with him was condemned to worser [ i ] e , And for them both one fire was made . Yet , arm in arm most joyfully These lovers twain unto the fire did go . The mariner most faithfully Was likewise partner of their woe . But when the judges understood That faithful friendship did in them remain , They sav'd their lives , and afterwards To England sent them back again . Now was their sorrow turn'd to joy , And faithful lovers have their hearts desire . Their pain so well they did employ , God granted that they did desire . And when they did to England come , And in merry Bristol arriv'd at last , Great joy there was to all and some , They herd the dangers they had passed . Her father he was dead , God wot , And her old mother was joyful at her sighed . Their wishes she denied not , But wedded them to their [ h ] eart's deligh , Her gentle master he desired , To be her father , and at church to give her then It was fulfilled as she required , To the joy of all good men . Printed and sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . 