A New and True BALLAD of the Poet's Complain OR , A new Song to a new Tune , of a Young Wench living in Holbourn , with a full description of the notable Tricks put upon her by two Cornuted Suitors . Reader assure thyself the thing is true , And though it seem full strange 'tis very true ; I wish such Gypsies fitted all as she , Then would they learn much honester to be . To a Pleasant new Tune , called , I am Confirm'd , etc FAith i'm a Dog if I can guess What strain will most oblige the Press : 'Mongst twenty several things , 'tis well , If one in all the score will fell : One thing alas is thought too stale , Another is not fit for Sale ; Because the Poets modest Rhimes , Are not so vicious as the Times . In short , one reason is , I guess , They know the Poet's Moneyless ; And they resolve to keep him so , By feeding him with Snap and Go : Another reason may be this , They'l keep him Poor as he can Piss , In hope's that in a while he may Be forc'd to give his pains away . But happen how it will , yet I Once more resolved am to try Whither I can provide a Sallat That will but please your squeamish Palla The Sauce is Tart , Meat fresh and new , The Story no more strange then true ; Then welcome all , fallen to I pray , Much Good may't do you , Sirs I say . In Holbourn late a Wench did dwell , Known by the Dame of Bouncing Nell ; Who Courted was by Suitors two , For you must note one would not do : She was a lusty strapping Jade , And one that passed for a Maid : And her two Friends the Devil take her , Were a brisk Taylor and a Baker . The Taylor after some dispute , Provides this Lass a handsome Suit ; Some say 'twas made of Tailors Cabbidge Yet it was too good for the Baggage ; Nay , this same Slut her self did tell , Her Sweetheart brought it out of Hell ; A place beneath his Shopboard , where He us'd to put ill-gotten Ware . The Baker loath to be behind ; Unto his Dear prov'd not less kind ; And being pretty full of Money , He bought a Ring to give his Honey : Whereon as you must understand , Where lovers two clasped hand in hand ; Which made her promise he alone , Should soon possess her as his own . The Second Part , To the same Tune . BUt the false Gypsie meant not so , As by and by you well shall know ; For three nights after this she had , Another proper lively Lad : Who took possession of the thing Promis'd the Baker for his Ring ; Which when the Baker understood , He vowed revenge by all that's good . He thereupon with speed did go Unto the Taylor late his Foe ; And with a witty brisk contrival , Tells the whole Story to his Rival : At which he swore he'd blow her down , He would pull off the Gypsies Gown ; And the next time he did her meet , Would kick her up and down the street . The Baker seeing him thus rage , Speaks thus his fury to assuage ; We both are wrong'd alike , and I Will be revenged or will die : Let us work closely , then quoth he , And make no noise , and you shall see , We'l play a prank shall fit her well , And make her wish her name not Nell . Things thus concluded , they agree , To make no noise of what they see ; They were so true unto their trust , That the poor Jade did not mistrust . They notice took of what was done , But thought herself clear as the Sun : But you shall hear this subtle Shaver , With a sly trick did much beslave her . They both went straight and knocked at door , As if they'd not been there before ; And tells her now his friend and he , Were then resolved to agree : And that a Supper was provided , where this their case should be decided , Let her choose one , the other he , Should not control her liberty . Away she goes with these her friends , Without mistrusting of their ends ; They took a Coach and did convey Their Lady quite another way : And made the Coachman stop a while , Without the town near half a Mile : And took her forth immediately , And thus began their Roguery . The Baker cries I understand , Your Ladyship hath late took Man , And since you are so hight 'tis meet , Cold water should assuage your hea Of thy unfaithful Lecherous Tail , With that they both of them did trail Her to a little Pond there by , And souz'd her very handsomely . The Taylor being loath to be Behind his friend in Courtesy , Lends her his helping hand , and ties Her head and face between her thighs : And minding to go through stitch , Sticks a light Candle in her Breech ; And in that posture leaves with jeers , Her with her Coats about her ears . They thereupon took Coach , and pray She'd make no more such fools as they , Lest the next time some other Man , Show her a worse trick ten to one : The Wench at last god lose , but how , In truth good Reader I don't know : So sham'd she was at what was done , That home again she never come . Some say this Wenches Friends do dwe [ ll ] Dear Derby hard by Kelston-Well : And that she is gone down to try , To cure her Itching Lechery : But others think the reason why , She from her dwelling thus did fly , Was 'cause her shame flew in her face , She left the Town to shun disgrace . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A New and True BALLAD of the Poet's Complain OR , A new Song to a new Tune , of a Young Wench living in Holbourn , with a full description of the notable Tricks put upon her by two Cornuted Suitors . Reader assure thyself the thing is true , And though it seem full strange 'tis very true ; I wish such Gypsies fitted all as she , Then would they learn much honester to be . To a Pleasant new Tune , called , I am Confirm'd , etc FAith i'm a Dog if I can guess What strain will most oblige the Press : 'Mongst twenty several things , 'tis well , If one in all the score will fell : One thing alas is thought too stale , Another is not fit for Sale ; Because the Poets modest Rhimes , Are not so vicious as the Times . In short , one reason is , I guess , They know the Poet's Moneyless ; And they resolve to keep him so , By feeding him with Snap and Go : Another reason may be this , They'l keep him Poor as he can Piss , In hope's that in a while he may Be forc'd to give his pains away . But happen how it will , yet I Once more resolved am to try Whither I can provide a Sallat That will but please your squeamish Palla The Sauce is Tart , Meat fresh and new , The Story no more strange then true ; Then welcome all , fallen to I pray , Much Good may't do you , Sirs I say . In Holbourn late a Wench did dwell , Known by the Dame of Bouncing Nell ; Who Courted was by Suitors two , For you must note one would not do : She was a lusty strapping Jade , And one that passed for a Maid : And her two Friends the Devil take her , Were a brisk Taylor and a Baker . The Taylor after some dispute , Provides this Lass a handsome Suit ; Some say 'twas made of Tailors Cabbidge Yet it was too good for the Baggage ; Nay , this same Slut her self did tell , Her Sweetheart brought it out of Hell ; A place beneath his Shopboard , where He us'd to put ill-gotten Ware . The Baker loath to be behind ; Unto his Dear prov'd not less kind ; And being pretty full of Money , He bought a Ring to give his Honey : Whereon as you must understand , Where lovers two clasped hand in hand ; Which made her promise he alone , Should soon possess her as his own . The Second Part , To the same Tune . BUt the false Gypsie meant not so , As by and by you well shall know ; For three nights after this she had , Another proper lively Lad : Who took possession of the thing Promis'd the Baker for his Ring ; Which when the Baker understood , He vowed revenge by all that's good . He thereupon with speed did go Unto the Taylor late his Foe ; And with a witty brisk contrival , Tells the whole Story to his Rival : At which he swore he'd blow her down , He would pull off the Gypsies Gown ; And the next time he did her meet , Would kick her up and down the street . The Baker seeing him thus rage , Speaks thus his fury to assuage ; We both are wrong'd alike , and I Will be revenged or will die : Let us work closely , then quoth he , And make no noise , and you shall see , We'l play a prank shall fit her well , And make her wish her name not Nell . Things thus concluded , they agree , To make no noise of what they see ; They were so true unto their trust , That the poor Jade did not mistrust . They notice took of what was done , But thought herself clear as the Sun : But you shall hear this subtle Shaver , With a sly trick did much beslave her . They both went straight and knocked at door , As if they'd not been there before ; And tells her now his friend and he , Were then resolved to agree : And that a Supper was provided , where this their case should be decided , Let her choose one , the other he , Should not control her liberty . Away she goes with these her friends , Without mistrusting of their ends ; They took a Coach and did convey Their Lady quite another way : And made the Coachman stop a while , Without the town near half a Mile : And took her forth immediately , And thus began their Roguery . The Baker cries I understand , Your Ladyship hath late took Man , And since you are so hight 'tis meet , Cold water should assuage your hea Of thy unfaithful Lecherous Tail , With that they both of them did trail Her to a little Pond there by , And souz'd her very handsomely . The Taylor being loath to be Behind his friend in Courtesy , Lends her his helping hand , and ties Her head and face between her thighs : And minding to go through stitch , Sticks a light Candle in her Breech ; And in that posture leaves with jeers , Her with her Coats about her ears . They thereupon took Coach , and pray She'd make no more such fools as they , Lest the next time some other Man , Show her a worse trick ten to one : The Wench at last god lose , but how , In truth good Reader I don't know : So sham'd she was at what was done , That home again she never come . Some say this Wenches Friends do dwe [ ll ] Dear Derby hard by Kelston-Well : And that she is gone down to try , To cure her Itching Lechery : But others think the reason why , She from her dwelling thus did fly , Was 'cause her shame flew in her face , She left the Town to shun disgrace . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 