Love and Loyalty Well met The Faithful Youngman Loved well , This Damsel Fair and bright , Whose beauty did so much excel She prov'd his hearts delight . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . Young-Man . FAirest of Fair ones , if thou should'st prove cruel , my Love to requite with scorn and disdain , And to my flaming heart , add cumbustible fuel , it would much increase both my sorrow and pain ; Thy beauty it is , that I do so desire , and on thee I think both by day and by night , There's none but thy self that I Love and admire for thou art my true love , my joy and Delight . Maids Answer . You young men of late are so false and deceitful , poor innocent maids know not who to believe , Much Love you pretend , but do oft prove ungrateful , and leave us poor Damsels to mourn and to grieve : Such pretty Court Fashions of late you have learned , you'l vow and protest your base mind to fulfil , To Credulous Damsels it is not discerned , and so wrong young Maidens that never thought ill . Youngman . I'me none of that number , I prithee doubt doubt me , my heart in thy breast is imprisoned sure , And for my affection I prithee don't flout me , for my Love shall last , while my Life does endure To this my poor suit do not give a denial , nor seem in the lest thy true Lover to slight , Thou plainly wilt find when it comes to the trial , that thou art my true love , my joy and Delight . Maid . If thou wouldst be faithful and real unto me , Oh! then I would tell thee a piece of my mind , It would be no trouble at all for to woo me , to one that is constant , I soon could be kind : But if I should venture to come to a trial , and grant your desire your mind to fulfil , If in the conclusion thou shouldst be Disloyal , 't would wrong a poor maiden that never thought ill . Young-Man . No , no , by the power that governs poor creatures , I will be as Loyal as mortal can be , For I am enamoured with thy pretty features , and thou like and Angel appearest to me ; In thy Rosy cheeks my delights I have fixed , and nothing is welcome but thee in my sighed ; When thy Love with my Love together are mixed , thou art my true love , my joy and Delight . Maids Answer . These pretty kind speeches , I fear will persuade me , to tender good nature to Love and admire , Blind Cupid already begins to invade me , and now I'me possessed with Loves amorous fire . Come give me thy hand with a large protestation , that what I desire thou wilt freely fulfil , For thou art the man I love best in the Nation then wrong not a Maiden that never thought ill . Young-Man . These tidings my dearest exceedingly please me , my heart thou hast wone , I'le forever be thine , Of my pains and torments my Love thou dost ease me as I am thy true Love , I hope thou art mine ; Let us two together lie close in embraces , in Love we will solace by day and by night , Thou art so adorned with beautiful graces , that thou art my true love my joy and Delight . Maid . Come come then my true Love , no longer we'l tarry , but finish the rites that poor Lovers enjoy , we'l go to the Church , and with speed we will marry , to show that at first 'twas my real design , Though it seemed strange , it was only to try thee , and yet seemed loath thy mind to fulfil , I knew in my heart that I could not deny thee , for I am a Maiden that never thought ill . The AUTHOR . Fair Maidens take pattern by these faithful Lovers , who now are fast linked in Cupids strong Chains , For when Telltale eyes a true passion discovers , they soon put and end unto torturing pains ; And youngmen not more do you now prove deceitful , but constant and Loyal by day and by night , For 'tis no small trespass to be so ungrateful , to her who accounts you her Joy and delight . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare . at the Sign of the Looking-glass , on London-Bridge . Love and Loyalty Well met The Faithful Youngman Loved well , This Damsel Fair and bright , Whose beauty did so much excel She prov'd his hearts delight . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . Young-Man . FAirest of Fair ones , if thou should'st prove cruel , my Love to requite with scorn and disdain , And to my flaming heart , add cumbustible fuel , it would much increase both my sorrow and pain ; Thy beauty it is , that I do so desire , and on thee I think both by day and by night , There's none but thy self that I Love and admire for thou art my true love , my joy and Delight . Maids Answer . You young men of late are so false and deceitful , poor innocent maids know not who to believe , Much Love you pretend , but do oft prove ungrateful , and leave us poor Damsels to mourn and to grieve : Such pretty Court Fashions of late you have learned , you'l vow and protest your base mind to fulfil , To Credulous Damsels it is not discerned , and so wrong young Maidens that never thought ill . Youngman . I'me none of that number , I prithee doubt doubt me , my heart in thy breast is imprisoned sure , And for my affection I prithee don't flout me , for my Love shall last , while my Life does endure To this my poor suit do not give a denial , nor seem in the lest thy true Lover to slight , Thou plainly wilt find when it comes to the trial , that thou art my true love , my joy and Delight . Maid . If thou wouldst be faithful and real unto me , Oh! then I would tell thee a piece of my mind , It would be no trouble at all for to woo me , to one that is constant , I soon could be kind : But if I should venture to come to a trial , and grant your desire your mind to fulfil , If in the conclusion thou shouldst be Disloyal , 't would wrong a poor maiden that never thought ill . Young-Man . No , no , by the power that governs poor creatures , I will be as Loyal as mortal can be , For I am enamoured with thy pretty features , and thou like and Angel appearest to me ; In thy Rosy cheeks my delights I have fixed , and nothing is welcome but thee in my sighed ; When thy Love with my Love together are mixed , thou art my true love , my joy and Delight . Maids Answer . These pretty kind speeches , I fear will persuade me , to tender good nature to Love and admire , Blind Cupid already begins to invade me , and now I'me possessed with Loves amorous fire . Come give me thy hand with a large protestation , that what I desire thou wilt freely fulfil , For thou art the man I love best in the Nation then wrong not a Maiden that never thought ill . Young-Man . These tidings my dearest exceedingly please me , my heart thou hast wone , I'le forever be thine , Of my pains and torments my Love thou dost ease me as I am thy true Love , I hope thou art mine ; Let us two together lie close in embraces , in Love we will solace by day and by night , Thou art so adorned with beautiful graces , that thou art my true love my joy and Delight . Maid . Come come then my true Love , no longer we'l tarry , but finish the rites that poor Lovers enjoy , we'l go to the Church , and with speed we will marry , to show that at first 'twas my real design , Though it seemed strange , it was only to try thee , and yet seemed loath thy mind to fulfil , I knew in my heart that I could not deny thee , for I am a Maiden that never thought ill . The AUTHOR . Fair Maidens take pattern by these faithful Lovers , who now are fast linked in Cupids strong Chains , For when Telltale eyes a true passion discovers , they soon put and end unto torturing pains ; And youngmen not more do you now prove deceitful , but constant and Loyal by day and by night , For 'tis no small trespass to be so ungrateful , to her who accounts you her Joy and delight . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare . at the Sign of the Looking-glass , on London-Bridge . 