The two Lymas Lovers , Thomas and Betty . Set forth in a Dialogue between them at his Departure . Altho' they part , yet still his Heart was true , he lov'd her dear . And likewise she in Loyalty , did perfectly appear . Tune of , Oh so so ungrateful a Creature , This may be Printed . R.P. FAirest of Creatures I leave thee , now for a Twelvemonth or more , Yet I will never deceive thee , but will thy blessings restore : When I return from the Ocean , Gold I will bring to my dear , For my sweet Jewels promotion , there is no Perils i'le fear . Surely thy words they are ki [ l ] ling , which to my sorrow I hear , Never was Maid more [ r ] e unwilling , than I to part with my dear , Why wilt thou hazard the dangers , of the Tempestuous Seas , With the abuses of Strangers , when thou might live at thy ease . Why should those dangers affright us , Seamen must ne'r be dismay'd , There is nothing can delight us , more then a prosperous Trade : Sailing from Nation to Nation , traveling Seamen behold , Wondered Works of Creation , bring home the Indian Gold . Why dost thou tell me of treasure ? threaten me that thou wilt rome , Can I possess greater pleasure , then to embrace thee at home ? O that I might but enjoy thee , 'tis what thy true-lover craves , Here there is none can annoy thee , no not the turbulent Waves . What tho' awhile we are parted ? heaven still will be my guide , Why should I then be fainthearted ? since there is many beside , Captain , with valiant stout Seamen , Bowson with all the whole Crew , Married Men as well as Freemen , fears not what Tempests can do . Dearest thy language does grieve me , being surrounded with fears , Hast thou the power to leave me , drowned with sorrowful tears ? When I consider my Jewel , whom I so dearly adore , Meet with those Billows so cruel , where I shall see him no more . Love , when most terrible thunder , causes a Tempest to rise , Tearing your Rigging asunder , tossed between Billows and Skies . Weeping alas ! must relieve me , while thou art Sailing the Sea , Nothing in nature does grieve me , more than the parting with thee . Prithee be patient my Sweating , let nothing trouble thy mind , There will be joy in next meeting , thou shalt assuredly find , When I return you shall flourish , Jewels to thee I will give , And in my Arms I will nourish , my Love as long as I live . No one but thee I will Marry , whom I do dearly adore , Though I no longer can tarry with thee my Jewel on Shore : Let it be still thy endeavour , truly contented to be , Though for a while we must sever , I will be Loyal to thee . Seeing we must be divided , and that thou wilt have thy will , May you by Blessings be guided , thus I shall pray for thee still : That nothing may e're annoy thee , while thou com'st safe to the Shore , Love I shall long to enjoy thee , and to behold thee once more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . The two Lymas Lovers , Thomas and Betty . Set forth in a Dialogue between them at his Departure . Altho' they part , yet still his Heart was true , he lov'd her dear . And likewise she in Loyalty , did perfectly appear . Tune of , Oh so so ungrateful a Creature , This may be Printed . R.P. FAirest of Creatures I leave thee , now for a Twelvemonth or more , Yet I will never deceive thee , but will thy blessings restore : When I return from the Ocean , Gold I will bring to my dear , For my sweet Jewels promotion , there is no Perils i'le fear . Surely thy words they are ki [ l ] ling , which to my sorrow I hear , Never was Maid more [ r ] e unwilling , than I to part with my dear , Why wilt thou hazard the dangers , of the Tempestuous Seas , With the abuses of Strangers , when thou might live at thy ease . Why should those dangers affright us , Seamen must ne'r be dismay'd , There is nothing can delight us , more then a prosperous Trade : Sailing from Nation to Nation , traveling Seamen behold , Wondered Works of Creation , bring home the Indian Gold . Why dost thou tell me of treasure ? threaten me that thou wilt rome , Can I possess greater pleasure , then to embrace thee at home ? O that I might but enjoy thee , 'tis what thy true-lover craves , Here there is none can annoy thee , no not the turbulent Waves . What tho' awhile we are parted ? heaven still will be my guide , Why should I then be fainthearted ? since there is many beside , Captain , with valiant stout Seamen , Bowson with all the whole Crew , Married Men as well as Freemen , fears not what Tempests can do . Dearest thy language does grieve me , being surrounded with fears , Hast thou the power to leave me , drowned with sorrowful tears ? When I consider my Jewel , whom I so dearly adore , Meet with those Billows so cruel , where I shall see him no more . Love , when most terrible thunder , causes a Tempest to rise , Tearing your Rigging asunder , tossed between Billows and Skies . Weeping alas ! must relieve me , while thou art Sailing the Sea , Nothing in nature does grieve me , more than the parting with thee . Prithee be patient my Sweating , let nothing trouble thy mind , There will be joy in next meeting , thou shalt assuredly find , When I return you shall flourish , Jewels to thee I will give , And in my Arms I will nourish , my Love as long as I live . No one but thee I will Marry , whom I do dearly adore , Though I no longer can tarry with thee my Jewel on Shore : Let it be still thy endeavour , truly contented to be , Though for a while we must sever , I will be Loyal to thee . Seeing we must be divided , and that thou wilt have thy will , May you by Blessings be guided , thus I shall pray for thee still : That nothing may e're annoy thee , while thou com'st safe to the Shore , Love I shall long to enjoy thee , and to behold thee once more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . 