THE Valiant Soldiers last Farewell : OR , His dying Letter to his Loving Lady Lucretia . To the Tune of What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to order . FArewell Lucretia my amorous Jewel , this dying Letter in Sorrow I send ; Fortune hath prove [ worser ] unconstant nay cruel , bringing my Glory and Days to and end : I that have ventur'd through smoke , flame and fire , the Kingdom's Honour and Rights to regain , Am ready now at the length to expire , alive thou ne'er wilt behold me again . With mournful Friends I am ever surrounded , whose Eyes like Fountains does flow night and day , Seeing their Leader so fatally wounded , that in this Life I no longer can stay ; Therefore farewell , for alas ! I must leave thee , 'tis but a Folly to sighs and complain ; Let not this sorrowful Letter e'er grieve thee , alive thou ne'er wilt behold me again . My Loyal Duty was never neglected , the War with Courage I still did pursue ; Honour was all the Reward I expected , for the hard Service I ever went through : 'Twas for the good of King , Queen , and Nation , that I did fight on the wide Ocean Main , But now I languish without expectation ever alive to behold thee again . France my true Courage could never keep under , though two to one , we show'd them fair play ; While the great Cannons were roaring like Thunder I was the while in the midst of the Fray ; Yet I acknowledge it was but my Duty , the Nations Honour and Rights to maintain ; But now Farewell my sweet amorous Beauty , alive I ne'er shall behold thee again . Foes I have fought with , but never fear'd any , but with true Courage did always appear , And might I still be endu'd with as many Lives , as there's hours and days in the year , They should be all at King William's Devotion , to fight his Enemies on the soft Main ; I'd venture still for the Kingdom's promotion , though I might never behold thee again . Lady , I fallen by the hand of a Tory , who is the Actor of all Villainy ; Yet let me tell thee , I triumph and glory , that in the Bed of True Honour I die : Therefore , my Dearest , let nothing offend thee , many brave Soldiers beside me are slave ; May all the Blessings of Heaven attend thee , altho' I never behold thee again . When the kind Waves shall be pleas'd to convey me , over the Ocean to my Native shore , And near thy Lodgings , sweet Lady , shall lay me , 'tis not thy Tears that my Life can restore ; Therefore I'd have thee be void of all Passion , seeing all sorrowful Sighs are in vain , My Life I lost for the good of the Nation ; therefore alive thou'lt ne'er see me again . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ballin Pie-corner . THE Valiant Soldiers last Farewell : OR , His dying Letter to his Loving Lady Lucretia . To the Tune of What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to order . FArewell Lucretia my amorous Jewel , this dying Letter in Sorrow I send ; Fortune hath prove [ worser ] unconstant nay cruel , bringing my Glory and Days to and end : I that have ventur'd through smoke , flame and fire , the Kingdom's Honour and Rights to regain , Am ready now at the length to expire , alive thou ne'er wilt behold me again . With mournful Friends I am ever surrounded , whose Eyes like Fountains does flow night and day , Seeing their Leader so fatally wounded , that in this Life I no longer can stay ; Therefore farewell , for alas ! I must leave thee , 'tis but a Folly to sighs and complain ; Let not this sorrowful Letter e'er grieve thee , alive thou ne'er wilt behold me again . My Loyal Duty was never neglected , the War with Courage I still did pursue ; Honour was all the Reward I expected , for the hard Service I ever went through : 'Twas for the good of King , Queen , and Nation , that I did fight on the wide Ocean Main , But now I languish without expectation ever alive to behold thee again . France my true Courage could never keep under , though two to one , we show'd them fair play ; While the great Cannons were roaring like Thunder I was the while in the midst of the Fray ; Yet I acknowledge it was but my Duty , the Nations Honour and Rights to maintain ; But now Farewell my sweet amorous Beauty , alive I ne'er shall behold thee again . Foes I have fought with , but never fear'd any , but with true Courage did always appear , And might I still be endu'd with as many Lives , as there's hours and days in the year , They should be all at King William's Devotion , to fight his Enemies on the soft Main ; I'd venture still for the Kingdom's promotion , though I might never behold thee again . Lady , I fallen by the hand of a Tory , who is the Actor of all Villainy ; Yet let me tell thee , I triumph and glory , that in the Bed of True Honour I die : Therefore , my Dearest , let nothing offend thee , many brave Soldiers beside me are slave ; May all the Blessings of Heaven attend thee , altho' I never behold thee again . When the kind Waves shall be pleas'd to convey me , over the Ocean to my Native shore , And near thy Lodgings , sweet Lady , shall lay me , 'tis not thy Tears that my Life can restore ; Therefore I'd have thee be void of all Passion , seeing all sorrowful Sighs are in vain , My Life I lost for the good of the Nation ; therefore alive thou'lt ne'er see me again . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ballin Pie-corner . 