Thamasis's Advice TO THE PAINTER , FROM HER FRIGID ZONE : OR WONDERS upon the WATER . FAm'd Thamasis , with shiv'ring Winter Dresses , With Isicles , and other borrow'd Tresses , And on her Head a Periwig of Snow , And freezed Mantle fring'd with Ice below , Out of her watery Bed , amaz'd appears , And thus the Current of her Language steers . Spread a large Canvas , Painter , to contain The strange surprising Sights , the numerous Train , That all about my Back do walk or fit , Of all Degrees , some Sage , some wanting wit , For Crouds of People hither do retire , As to Moor-fields , after the dreadful Fire , Threatening the City to depopulate As once before it was unfortunate . Then draw the King , who on his Leads does stay , To see the Throng , as on a Lord Mayors day , And thus unto his Nobles pleas'd to say ; With these Men on this Ice , I'de undertake , To cause the Turk all Europe to forsake : And Army of these Men , arm'd and complete , Would soon the Turk in Christendom defeat . Then draw me Temple-Blanket-street , where all The Watermen do loudly cry and baul , Louder than Lawyers in Western-hall . Instead of standing at the stairs to ply , They say , What is't you lack , what is't you buy ? And while the Rooks do tell and heavy Tale , And curse the Frost , they cry , Good Beer and Ale , Coffee or Mum or Wine , the heart to cheer , Roast Beef , or Mutton boil'd , or Brandy clear . There There mighty Ice Cakes , and Plumb-Cakes are found : There all variety of things abound , Only green Peas and Cherries , they are rare , As Guineys in a Poets Pocket are . Here you may buy a Diamond Ring for nought , Such as from India ne'er was brought ; ( The Cuts were Diamond , the Substance , Ice , Which in Men's Pockets vanish'd in a trice : But for his Cheat , the Man will pay full dear , Condemned by my Lord to Whipping Cheer . ) Then , Painter , let us to the Print-house go , Where Men the Art of Printing soon do know ; Where , for a Taster , you may have your Name Printed , hereafter for to show the same ; And sure in former Ages ne'er was found , A Press to print , where Men so oft were drowned . Next , notice of the various motions take , Some bold as Hector , some for fear do quake , One slides , one slips , and one downright does fallen Into and Hold , the Skuller then does baul , What will you rob my Cellar of its drink ? When he , alas , poor man , no harm does think . There Chariots fly , there Coaches run on wheels , And men ( out-tipling of the Fish ) reels , And often up does go the Woman's heels , And something , to remember what she saw , she feels . The Watermen as busy are as Bees , Or as some Welch men cramming toasted Cheese . Instead of Waves that us'd to beatrice the shore , There Bears and Bull , loudly now do roar . There Boats do slide , where Boats were wont to row ; Where Ships did sail , the Watermen them tow . All things do move upon this Element , As if on Terra ferma their feet went . Hard times the good and righteous God hath sent , For our more hardened hearts , as punishment ; From Heav'n this Scourge is sent us for our pride ; We're plagu'd with Ice , because we do backslide . The only way these things for to redress , Is that each one his Sins to God confess ; Let every one sweep clean and neat his door , And let our hearts be softened to the Poor . Honour the King , and all your Neighbours love , And then the Heav'ns these Judgments will remove . London : Printed by G. Croom , on the River of Thames . Thamasis's Advice TO THE PAINTER , FROM HER FRIGID ZONE : OR WONDERS upon the WATER . FAm'd Thamasis , with shiv'ring Winter Dresses , With Isicles , and other borrow'd Tresses , And on her Head a Periwig of Snow , And freezed Mantle fring'd with Ice below , Out of her watery Bed , amaz'd appears , And thus the Current of her Language steers . Spread a large Canvas , Painter , to contain The strange surprising Sights , the numerous Train , That all about my Back do walk or fit , Of all Degrees , some Sage , some wanting wit , For Crouds of People hither do retire , As to Moor-fields , after the dreadful Fire , Threatening the City to depopulate As once before it was unfortunate . Then draw the King , who on his Leads does stay , To see the Throng , as on a Lord Mayors day , And thus unto his Nobles pleas'd to say ; With these Men on this Ice , I'de undertake , To cause the Turk all Europe to forsake : And Army of these Men , arm'd and complete , Would soon the Turk in Christendom defeat . Then draw me Temple-Blanket-street , where all The Watermen do loudly cry and baul , Louder than Lawyers in Western-hall . Instead of standing at the stairs to ply , They say , What is't you lack , what is't you buy ? And while the Rooks do tell and heavy Tale , And curse the Frost , they cry , Good Beer and Ale , Coffee or Mum or Wine , the heart to cheer , Roast Beef , or Mutton boil'd , or Brandy clear . There There mighty Ice Cakes , and Plumb-Cakes are found : There all variety of things abound , Only green Peas and Cherries , they are rare , As Guineys in a Poets Pocket are . Here you may buy a Diamond Ring for nought , Such as from India ne'er was brought ; ( The Cuts were Diamond , the Substance , Ice , Which in Men's Pockets vanish'd in a trice : But for his Cheat , the Man will pay full dear , Condemned by my Lord to Whipping Cheer . ) Then , Painter , let us to the Print-house go , Where Men the Art of Printing soon do know ; Where , for a Taster , you may have your Name Printed , hereafter for to show the same ; And sure in former Ages ne'er was found , A Press to print , where Men so oft were drowned . Next , notice of the various motions take , Some bold as Hector , some for fear do quake , One slides , one slips , and one downright does fallen Into and Hold , the Skuller then does baul , What will you rob my Cellar of its drink ? When he , alas , poor man , no harm does think . There Chariots fly , there Coaches run on wheels , And men ( out-tipling of the Fish ) reels , And often up does go the Woman's heels , And something , to remember what she saw , she feels . The Watermen as busy are as Bees , Or as some Welch men cramming toasted Cheese . Instead of Waves that us'd to beatrice the shore , There Bears and Bull , loudly now do roar . There Boats do slide , where Boats were wont to row ; Where Ships did sail , the Watermen them tow . All things do move upon this Element , As if on Terra ferma their feet went . Hard times the good and righteous God hath sent , For our more hardened hearts , as punishment ; From Heav'n this Scourge is sent us for our pride ; We're plagu'd with Ice , because we do backslide . The only way these things for to redress , Is that each one his Sins to God confess ; Let every one sweep clean and neat his door , And let our hearts be softened to the Poor . Honour the King , and all your Neighbours love , And then the Heav'ns these Judgments will remove . London : Printed by G. Croom , on the River of Thames . 