LOVE and HONOUR : OR , The Lover's Farewell to Calista : Being sent from Sea in the late Engagement against the Dutch , to his Mistress , under the Name of Calista . To which is added the , The LADY's Deploring and In - genius Answer . To the Tune of , Now the Tyrant hath stolen , etc FArewel my Calista , my joy and my grief , In vain have I lov'd thee , and found no relief ; Undone by your Virtues so strict and severe , Your eyes gave me love , but you gave me despair ; Now call'd by my honour , I seek with content , That fate which in pity you would not preven To languish in love were to find by delay , A death that's more welcome the speediest way . On Seas , and in Battles , 'mongst bul'ets and fire , The danger is less then in hopeless desire , The death's wound you gave me , though far off , I bear My fallen from your sight's not to cost you a tear : But if the kind flood on a wave should convey , And under your window my body should lay , The wound on my breast , when you happen to You will say , with a sighs , It was given by me . When Suitors are wounded with stabs of disdain , 'Tis happiness to be put out of their pain : The grave is a place to bid torment farewell , But Lovers are tortur'd 'twixt Heaven and Hell , When frowns of a Mistress do turn a man o're , 'Tis safer on Shipboard than 'ts on the shore : I find by experience , though with loss of breath , 'Tis worse to encounter with Cupid than Death . What strength had a Lady with cast of her eye , To make a Man live , or compel him to die ? Such power had Calista with smile and with frown She'd raise me to Heaven , then tumble me down : But Dearest take care how you put faith in Men , For I fear you will never be lov'd again : You needs must acknowledge while I could draw breath I was your unchangeable Servant till death . Once more my last Farewell I breath in a blast , The cloud on my vitals is much overcast ; I faint , fail , I perish , and suddenly die , Yet sure should recover if thou wertenberg but by : That I ne're enjoy'd thee , I do not repine , Thou liv'st with thy Honour , and I die with mine : For to After-Ages this Story will prove , I died in the War for my King and my Love . The LADY's Answer . BLame not your Calista nor call her your grief , 'Twas Honour , not she , that deny'd your relief : Abuse not her Virtues , nor term them severe , Who loves without honour , must look for despair . Now prompted by pity I truly lament , The force of your Fate which I could not preven And languish to think that your blood did defray The expense of your Love , tho' so noble a way . On Seas and in Battles that you did expire , Was caus'd by your Valour , not hopeless Desire ; Of your Fame , there acquired , I greedily hear , And grieve when I think that it cost you so dear : But when your sad Friends shall your body convey , By my window your Funeral-duties to pay , I'll sighs that your Fate then I could not reverse , And all my kind Wishes I'll strew on your Hearse . When Suitors petition , and run upon shelves , Or shot , if deny'd , they do murder themselves : The grave is a couch where the Virtuous remain , Without expectation of sorrow or pain . If the frowns of a Mistress can rule a Man's Fate , He value's his life at a pitiful rate : Tho' now she look cloudy , when he draws the scene Who knows but the daylight may clear up again . The looks of a Lady you falsely do scan , 'Tis not strength in the Woman , but weakness in Man , When Men set up Idols of flesh , blood and bone , And bow down to worship , the ftult is their own : I hope I shall ne'r be deceived by Men : For your sake I never shall trust them again 'Tis fatal when Lovers do suffer such stri [ fe ] That one must loose Honour , or th' other [ loose life ] My mind never can your last Farewell for [ get ] My tears shall confess I'll not die in your [ debt ] I heartily wish I had been by your side , That you might recover , or I might have [ e died ] Then both to Elezium we had been convey [ ed ] Where Ladies by Lovers are never bet [ rayed ] But in future ages this Story they'll sing [ , ] 'Twas long of your Love that you dy'd [ for your King ] Licens'd and Enter'd according to [ Order . ] LONDON : Printed for E. Brook [ sby at the ] sign of the Golden-ball in Pye-co [ rner . ] LOVE and HONOUR : OR , The Lover's Farewell to Calista : Being sent from Sea in the late Engagement against the Dutch , to his Mistress , under the Name of Calista . To which is added the , The LADY's Deploring and In - genius Answer . To the Tune of , Now the Tyrant hath stolen , etc FArewel my Calista , my joy and my grief , In vain have I lov'd thee , and found no relief ; Undone by your Virtues so strict and severe , Your eyes gave me love , but you gave me despair ; Now call'd by my honour , I seek with content , That fate which in pity you would not preven To languish in love were to find by delay , A death that's more welcome the speediest way . On Seas , and in Battles , 'mongst bul'ets and fire , The danger is less then in hopeless desire , The death's wound you gave me , though far off , I bear My fallen from your sight's not to cost you a tear : But if the kind flood on a wave should convey , And under your window my body should lay , The wound on my breast , when you happen to You will say , with a sighs , It was given by me . When Suitors are wounded with stabs of disdain , 'Tis happiness to be put out of their pain : The grave is a place to bid torment farewell , But Lovers are tortur'd 'twixt Heaven and Hell , When frowns of a Mistress do turn a man o're , 'Tis safer on Shipboard than 'ts on the shore : I find by experience , though with loss of breath , 'Tis worse to encounter with Cupid than Death . What strength had a Lady with cast of her eye , To make a Man live , or compel him to die ? Such power had Calista with smile and with frown She'd raise me to Heaven , then tumble me down : But Dearest take care how you put faith in Men , For I fear you will never be lov'd again : You needs must acknowledge while I could draw breath I was your unchangeable Servant till death . Once more my last Farewell I breath in a blast , The cloud on my vitals is much overcast ; I faint , fail , I perish , and suddenly die , Yet sure should recover if thou wertenberg but by : That I ne're enjoy'd thee , I do not repine , Thou liv'st with thy Honour , and I die with mine : For to After-Ages this Story will prove , I died in the War for my King and my Love . The LADY's Answer . BLame not your Calista nor call her your grief , 'Twas Honour , not she , that deny'd your relief : Abuse not her Virtues , nor term them severe , Who loves without honour , must look for despair . Now prompted by pity I truly lament , The force of your Fate which I could not preven And languish to think that your blood did defray The expense of your Love , tho' so noble a way . On Seas and in Battles that you did expire , Was caus'd by your Valour , not hopeless Desire ; Of your Fame , there acquired , I greedily hear , And grieve when I think that it cost you so dear : But when your sad Friends shall your body convey , By my window your Funeral-duties to pay , I'll sighs that your Fate then I could not reverse , And all my kind Wishes I'll strew on your Hearse . When Suitors petition , and run upon shelves , Or shot , if deny'd , they do murder themselves : The grave is a couch where the Virtuous remain , Without expectation of sorrow or pain . If the frowns of a Mistress can rule a Man's Fate , He value's his life at a pitiful rate : Tho' now she look cloudy , when he draws the scene Who knows but the daylight may clear up again . The looks of a Lady you falsely do scan , 'Tis not strength in the Woman , but weakness in Man , When Men set up Idols of flesh , blood and bone , And bow down to worship , the ftult is their own : I hope I shall ne'r be deceived by Men : For your sake I never shall trust them again 'Tis fatal when Lovers do suffer such stri [ fe ] That one must loose Honour , or th' other [ loose life ] My mind never can your last Farewell for [ get ] My tears shall confess I'll not die in your [ debt ] I heartily wish I had been by your side , That you might recover , or I might have [ e died ] Then both to Elezium we had been convey [ ed ] Where Ladies by Lovers are never bet [ rayed ] But in future ages this Story they'll sing [ , ] 'Twas long of your Love that you dy'd [ for your King ] Licens'd and Enter'd according to [ Order . ] LONDON : Printed for E. Brook [ sby at the ] sign of the Golden-ball in Pye-co [ rner . ] 