The Longing Virgins Choice : OR , The Scotch Lasses Delight . Virgins all you that Coyness still persuades , Though 'gainst your wills you still continue Maids ; Blush not at this , for though the Lass is kind , She's not to blame your all so in your mind : And fain would have the thing you dare not name , Sighing for that which she does boldy claim : Youngmen are kind , and would not see you want , If you but ask , what you desire they'l gran Then let not Blushes o're your pleasures swell , 'Tis sure but scurvy leading Apes in Hell . To a Modish new Scoth Tune , Sung at the Dukes Playhouse . BOnny Las , gin thou art mine , and with twenty thousand pound about thee I'de scorn thy goods for thee my queen , To lig thee down on any Green , To show thee how thy Daddy god thee . Bonny Lad gin thou art mine , and thousand Land about thee : I'de leave them awe to kiss thy Rneen , And gang with thee to any Green . To show thee how thy Daddy god thee . A match , good faith , with thee i'le gang , with the my joy i'se wou'd my lot be ; To Kiss and Clip thee I do long , Yet bonny Lass i'se do no wrong , But show thee how thy Daddy god thee . Thy Ruby Lips with joy i'se Kiss , and on the Primrose-bank i'le put thee : And there we'l take our fills of Bliss , We'l both play fair and never miss , While thou knowest how thy Daddy god thee UNder the greenest Willow shade , to live and love each e'ne our lot be , Where pretty Birds in Notes do spread , And that thou art no more a Maid , while I show how thy Daddy god thee . Under the Willow shades , quo I , what mean you in this place without me : Ods Bares , quo she , I tell no ley , I hither come with thee to try , and show me how my Daddy god me . Come ginn me then , my bonny Lad , thou'st shall have all that I can let thee : Come give me then what's to be had , Tickle my Pulse and make me glad , and show me how my Daddy god me . I lig'd me down then by her side , and muckly there I laid about me : To get a Bantling I apply'd , I spear'd her leave , but she deny'd , said I'le show how Daddy god me . Whelst thus we pass the time away , and in my arms I mean to put thee : Renewing pleasures with the day , I'le respite take' and then I'le play , And show thee how the Daddy god thee . Don't leave me yet , methinks 'tis Spring the Rose and Lilies bloom about me : And little Birds do joyous sing , In streams of pleasure sure I swim , while I learn how my Daddy god me . Enough my Lass , this time we's part , gang here tomorrow i'se allot thee ; Oh! 'tis too long , thou'lt break my heart , Less you a shorter time impart , to show again how Daddy god me . Then by this Kiss and Violets blew , when the Moon shines I will wait thee : And so i'le bid thee now adieu , My bonny Lad be sure you do , and show me how my Daddy god me . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie Corner . The Longing Virgins Choice : OR , The Scotch Lasses Delight . Virgins all you that Coyness still persuades , Though 'gainst your wills you still continue Maids ; Blush not at this , for though the Lass is kind , She's not to blame your all so in your mind : And fain would have the thing you dare not name , Sighing for that which she does boldy claim : Youngmen are kind , and would not see you want , If you but ask , what you desire they'l gran Then let not Blushes o're your pleasures swell , 'Tis sure but scurvy leading Apes in Hell . To a Modish new Scoth Tune , Sung at the Dukes Playhouse . BOnny Las , gin thou art mine , and with twenty thousand pound about thee I'de scorn thy goods for thee my queen , To lig thee down on any Green , To show thee how thy Daddy god thee . Bonny Lad gin thou art mine , and thousand Land about thee : I'de leave them awe to kiss thy Rneen , And gang with thee to any Green . To show thee how thy Daddy god thee . A match , good faith , with thee i'le gang , with the my joy i'se wou'd my lot be ; To Kiss and Clip thee I do long , Yet bonny Lass i'se do no wrong , But show thee how thy Daddy god thee . Thy Ruby Lips with joy i'se Kiss , and on the Primrose-bank i'le put thee : And there we'l take our fills of Bliss , We'l both play fair and never miss , While thou knowest how thy Daddy god thee UNder the greenest Willow shade , to live and love each e'ne our lot be , Where pretty Birds in Notes do spread , And that thou art no more a Maid , while I show how thy Daddy god thee . Under the Willow shades , quo I , what mean you in this place without me : Ods Bares , quo she , I tell no ley , I hither come with thee to try , and show me how my Daddy god me . Come ginn me then , my bonny Lad , thou'st shall have all that I can let thee : Come give me then what's to be had , Tickle my Pulse and make me glad , and show me how my Daddy god me . I lig'd me down then by her side , and muckly there I laid about me : To get a Bantling I apply'd , I spear'd her leave , but she deny'd , said I'le show how Daddy god me . Whelst thus we pass the time away , and in my arms I mean to put thee : Renewing pleasures with the day , I'le respite take' and then I'le play , And show thee how the Daddy god thee . Don't leave me yet , methinks 'tis Spring the Rose and Lilies bloom about me : And little Birds do joyous sing , In streams of pleasure sure I swim , while I learn how my Daddy god me . Enough my Lass , this time we's part , gang here tomorrow i'se allot thee ; Oh! 'tis too long , thou'lt break my heart , Less you a shorter time impart , to show again how Daddy god me . Then by this Kiss and Violets blew , when the Moon shines I will wait thee : And so i'le bid thee now adieu , My bonny Lad be sure you do , and show me how my Daddy god me . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie Corner . 