THE YOUNG MAN'S WOOING OR , A brief Description of the Properties of Widows and Lasses . To a Pleasant new Tune . I Once espy'd and handsome Wench , as I went through the Meadow ; I call'd her Maid ; but she deny'd : No , Sir , I am a Widow . I marvel much of that , said I , suppose you think I need no What Beauty in our Lasses lies , when there's so much in a Widow . Amaz'd , I stood , and wished to be with her in secret Chamber , For to discourse two Hours or three , and cure myself of Languor . Widow , said I , remember this , since he hath hence removed ; You need not moan , nor lie alone , for others may be loved ; Grass when its mown , will grow again , Example by the Meadow : Revive again , though you be low , for ye're a gallant Widow . Tho' Youngmen fancy Lasses much yet to despair they need not ; You may abide the second Match , for ye're a gallant Widow . Dear Sir , I will remember still your kindly Invitation ; I thank you , Sir , for your good will and offering Consolation ; I'le no more moan , nor lie alone ; because you say , I need not . I'le strive anon to fancy one , and I shall be his Widow . When my Husband liv'd , I did not busk ; for Wives you know they need no Sith he is gone , I'm now alone , remain a gallant Widow . Tho' Widow hood be low esteem'd , compar'd to broken Glasses ; Yet Widows may prove as good Match , as many of our Lasses . Come hither then to me , Youngman , and I's learn you a Lesson , If to me you will constant be , and not come for the Fashion : Come hither then to me , Youngman , and I's learn you a Lesson ; And I's teach you how you should do , to know your Occupation . Our Lasses they want Household stuff , and they are unprovided ; But Widows they have Gold and Gear , and want a Man to guide it . Maids of this World take little Care ; because they think they need not They cannot labour late and air , as does the gallant Widow . The Widow stands in her Bour Door , come hither Youngman , come hither For Widows have both Gold and Gear , and Lasses have but Silver . You Lasses have me not at Feed ; for I am sure you need not For when that your first Husband's dead you likewise prove a Widow . When Winter with his stormy Blasts withdraws Men's Hearts from Pleasure , Then I'le tell you and handsome Jest , if I had but the Leisure : Widows and Lasses prattle much , and for this cause they use it . But let them prattle what they will , our Lasses best deserve it . Widows want their Virginity , I count them but Natural Asses ; That yet for all their Conjunct-see , cannot compare to Lasses . Widows are subtle Creatures sure , and have deceived many ; They know what Bait can best allure , but Lasses they are bonny . Our Lasses keeps their Virtue rare , what need you then to smother ? Widows are chang'd like broken ware from one Hand to another . Widows are simple Creatures sure , and ay for Char'ty pleading : Our Lasses they're like Venus Dams , whom Cupid keeps afeeding . We'll drink no more Canary Sack , we'll break no more Bear Glasses ; But Burges Wives than we will quite , and court the bonny Lasses . My Gartens were of good green Hay , when I came through the Meadow ; But they are of the Gold so gay , since I match'd with a Widow . FINIS . THE YOUNG MAN'S WOOING OR , A brief Description of the Properties of Widows and Lasses . To a Pleasant new Tune . I Once espy'd and handsome Wench , as I went through the Meadow ; I call'd her Maid ; but she deny'd : No , Sir , I am a Widow . I marvel much of that , said I , suppose you think I need no What Beauty in our Lasses lies , when there's so much in a Widow . Amaz'd , I stood , and wished to be with her in secret Chamber , For to discourse two Hours or three , and cure myself of Languor . Widow , said I , remember this , since he hath hence removed ; You need not moan , nor lie alone , for others may be loved ; Grass when its mown , will grow again , Example by the Meadow : Revive again , though you be low , for ye're a gallant Widow . Tho' Youngmen fancy Lasses much yet to despair they need not ; You may abide the second Match , for ye're a gallant Widow . Dear Sir , I will remember still your kindly Invitation ; I thank you , Sir , for your good will and offering Consolation ; I'le no more moan , nor lie alone ; because you say , I need not . I'le strive anon to fancy one , and I shall be his Widow . When my Husband liv'd , I did not busk ; for Wives you know they need no Sith he is gone , I'm now alone , remain a gallant Widow . Tho' Widow hood be low esteem'd , compar'd to broken Glasses ; Yet Widows may prove as good Match , as many of our Lasses . Come hither then to me , Youngman , and I's learn you a Lesson , If to me you will constant be , and not come for the Fashion : Come hither then to me , Youngman , and I's learn you a Lesson ; And I's teach you how you should do , to know your Occupation . Our Lasses they want Household stuff , and they are unprovided ; But Widows they have Gold and Gear , and want a Man to guide it . Maids of this World take little Care ; because they think they need not They cannot labour late and air , as does the gallant Widow . The Widow stands in her Bour Door , come hither Youngman , come hither For Widows have both Gold and Gear , and Lasses have but Silver . You Lasses have me not at Feed ; for I am sure you need not For when that your first Husband's dead you likewise prove a Widow . When Winter with his stormy Blasts withdraws Men's Hearts from Pleasure , Then I'le tell you and handsome Jest , if I had but the Leisure : Widows and Lasses prattle much , and for this cause they use it . But let them prattle what they will , our Lasses best deserve it . Widows want their Virginity , I count them but Natural Asses ; That yet for all their Conjunct-see , cannot compare to Lasses . Widows are subtle Creatures sure , and have deceived many ; They know what Bait can best allure , but Lasses they are bonny . Our Lasses keeps their Virtue rare , what need you then to smother ? Widows are chang'd like broken ware from one Hand to another . Widows are simple Creatures sure , and ay for Char'ty pleading : Our Lasses they're like Venus Dams , whom Cupid keeps afeeding . We'll drink no more Canary Sack , we'll break no more Bear Glasses ; But Burges Wives than we will quite , and court the bonny Lasses . My Gartens were of good green Hay , when I came through the Meadow ; But they are of the Gold so gay , since I match'd with a Widow . FINIS . 