THE Seamans doleful Farewell ; Or , The Greenwich Lovers mournful Departure , See here the Pattern of true Love , which abs [ e ] nce cannot stain ; And nothing shall his mind remove , till he returns again . This may be Printed , R. T. Tune of , State and Ambition . Man. FArewel my dearest Love , now must I leave thee , to the East-Indies my Course I must steer , And when I think upon 't soar it does grieve me , let nothing possess thee with doubt or with fear ; For i'le be Loyal unto thee for ever , and , like to the Turtle , will constant remain , Nothing but cruel Death our Love shall sever , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . And must we , by Fortune , thus strangely be parted ? what dost thou think will become then of me ? Who must continue here quite brokenhearted , let me thy true Love now venture with thee : I fear not the dangers that wait on the Ocean , my troubles will greater be here on the Shore , Unto thy true Love now grant what she does mention , who else greatly fears she shall see thee no more . Man. With dangers on Seas thou art little acquainted , for when the winds blow , and the billows do roar , I fear thee ( my true Love ) will greatly be daunted , then let me entreat thee to stay on the Shore : My heart in thy breast I will sure leave behind me , and thou of my Constancy ne're shall complain , A Pattern of true Love thou ever shalt find me , and we will be married when I come again . Maid . Now many , like thee , that are constant and loyal , do venture to Sea , and do never return ? Then grant me my sure and make no more denial , for I in thine absence for ever shall mourn : O like to a Sea-Boy let me be attired , and talk not of leaving me here on the Shore , Thy Company by me so much is desired , that sure I should die should I see thee no more . Man. Cease , my true Love , and no more do persuade me , why shouldst thou run hazards just now in thy prime ? Thy true Love for ever blind Cupid hath made me , and thou to the topmast i'm sure cannot climb ; Thy Lily white hand cannot handle the tackle , the pitch and the tar on thy palms will remain , Tho' now thou are fetter'd in Cupids strong shackle , yet we will be married when I come again . Maid . Go then , my true Love , and Heavens great blessing ( where e're thou dost sail ) still upon thee attend , Love is a pleasure beyond all expressing , and Neptune , my dearest , I pray thee defend : For if in mine absence my Love should mi carry , whom I for his Virtues do so much adore , Then I of my life without doubt should be weary , and pine to my grave should I see thee more . Man. Come be of good comfort and grieve not my dearest , for I am as loath from my Love to depart , Heaven can prevent all the dangers thou fearest , then let not such jealousies trouble thy hear For should I behold all the Beauty's in Venice . yet still to my Dear I would constant remain , And nothing shall cause any difference between us , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . I long for that hour and covet the minute when Hymen my true love and me shall unite : I surfeit to think of the pleasure there's in it , 'tis comfort by day , but far sweeter by night , When we like true lovers shall join our poor face and find such delight as I ne'r knew before , This for certain a bliss for to lie in embraces , and then I will part with my true Love no more . Man. Well now the wind serves , in despite I must leave thee , but at our farewell let us change a sweet kiss : Again I do swear I will never deceive thee , and hope at the last to enjoy what I wish ; Still hoping that Fortune will show me such favour that I may be prosperous on the Salt Main , My true love in sorrow I fear for to leave her , but hope to enjoy her when I come again . Maid . When down their poor cheeks the salt Tears they did trickle , whole volleys of sighs from their breasts there did fly , At last he prevailed by little and little that he might be gone , and she could not deny : But kisses at parting were wondered plenty , and needs it must be that it grieved them soar , Tears they did drop till their eyes they were empty , for fear she her true love should never see more . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . THE Seamans doleful Farewell ; Or , The Greenwich Lovers mournful Departure , See here the Pattern of true Love , which abs [ e ] nce cannot stain ; And nothing shall his mind remove , till he returns again . This may be Printed , R. T. Tune of , State and Ambition . Man. FArewel my dearest Love , now must I leave thee , to the East-Indies my Course I must steer , And when I think upon 't soar it does grieve me , let nothing possess thee with doubt or with fear ; For i'le be Loyal unto thee for ever , and , like to the Turtle , will constant remain , Nothing but cruel Death our Love shall sever , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . And must we , by Fortune , thus strangely be parted ? what dost thou think will become then of me ? Who must continue here quite brokenhearted , let me thy true Love now venture with thee : I fear not the dangers that wait on the Ocean , my troubles will greater be here on the Shore , Unto thy true Love now grant what she does mention , who else greatly fears she shall see thee no more . Man. With dangers on Seas thou art little acquainted , for when the winds blow , and the billows do roar , I fear thee ( my true Love ) will greatly be daunted , then let me entreat thee to stay on the Shore : My heart in thy breast I will sure leave behind me , and thou of my Constancy ne're shall complain , A Pattern of true Love thou ever shalt find me , and we will be married when I come again . Maid . Now many , like thee , that are constant and loyal , do venture to Sea , and do never return ? Then grant me my sure and make no more denial , for I in thine absence for ever shall mourn : O like to a Sea-Boy let me be attired , and talk not of leaving me here on the Shore , Thy Company by me so much is desired , that sure I should die should I see thee no more . Man. Cease , my true Love , and no more do persuade me , why shouldst thou run hazards just now in thy prime ? Thy true Love for ever blind Cupid hath made me , and thou to the topmast i'm sure cannot climb ; Thy Lily white hand cannot handle the tackle , the pitch and the tar on thy palms will remain , Tho' now thou are fetter'd in Cupids strong shackle , yet we will be married when I come again . Maid . Go then , my true Love , and Heavens great blessing ( where e're thou dost sail ) still upon thee attend , Love is a pleasure beyond all expressing , and Neptune , my dearest , I pray thee defend : For if in mine absence my Love should mi carry , whom I for his Virtues do so much adore , Then I of my life without doubt should be weary , and pine to my grave should I see thee more . Man. Come be of good comfort and grieve not my dearest , for I am as loath from my Love to depart , Heaven can prevent all the dangers thou fearest , then let not such jealousies trouble thy hear For should I behold all the Beauty's in Venice . yet still to my Dear I would constant remain , And nothing shall cause any difference between us , but we will be married when I come again . Maid . I long for that hour and covet the minute when Hymen my true love and me shall unite : I surfeit to think of the pleasure there's in it , 'tis comfort by day , but far sweeter by night , When we like true lovers shall join our poor face and find such delight as I ne'r knew before , This for certain a bliss for to lie in embraces , and then I will part with my true Love no more . Man. Well now the wind serves , in despite I must leave thee , but at our farewell let us change a sweet kiss : Again I do swear I will never deceive thee , and hope at the last to enjoy what I wish ; Still hoping that Fortune will show me such favour that I may be prosperous on the Salt Main , My true love in sorrow I fear for to leave her , but hope to enjoy her when I come again . Maid . When down their poor cheeks the salt Tears they did trickle , whole volleys of sighs from their breasts there did fly , At last he prevailed by little and little that he might be gone , and she could not deny : But kisses at parting were wondered plenty , and needs it must be that it grieved them soar , Tears they did drop till their eyes they were empty , for fear she her true love should never see more . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . 