THE PARLIAMENTS KNELL . Farewell old Parliament of , seaven years standing Now make your testamen ther's no disbanding That very Rebell-route your first upholders , Are come to pull you out by head and shoulders . Come ler us sing ding dung , till we shake the steeple , This is a fine new song , Come along good people , Come help to ring their knell , they ne'ere refuse you , You needs must use 'em well ; that so did use you . Now all your virtual Kings must be desposed , Their tricks and juggling things are all disclosed , Their vows , and their results , now cannot save 'em , And for their close consults , the Devil will have them . King CHARLES is lose at last , the Scots have sold him , And when you had him fast , you could not hold him , He is now on his way , hee'l no more sue t'yee Fairfax hath played fair play , and done his duty . Your proud Presbytery Cannot protect you Your wise directory Cannot direct you , we shall have Bishops store , with Copes and Miters Buff coats shall preach no more , nor Priests be fighters . Your Wednesdayes and your ways of humiliation . Your strange thanksgiving days , of profanation Now must be laid aside , Christmas is lost else Old Easter Whitsontide , and the Apostles , Your propositions and Qualifications Your Protestations and your abjurations . Your Covenant and your Oath , of Nonadherence , Will make the Houses both to flee for fear hence . Now down with Goldsmiths Hall that Golden Idol That dreadful Tribunal that did decide all . Let's have our wives again , now you have fleec'd 'em . They'l serve delinquent men , though you have sqeezd 'em Rise up you Phelistins leave of your humming Repent you of your sins King Charles is Coming . Fairfax and Cromwell too are at Saint Albone They'l knock down more of you , then Sampsons jaw-bon Mr. FINIS . THE PARLIAMENTS KNELL . Farewell old Parliament of , seaven years standing Now make your testamen ther's no disbanding That very Rebell-route your first upholders , Are come to pull you out by head and shoulders . Come ler us sing ding dung , till we shake the steeple , This is a fine new song , Come along good people , Come help to ring their knell , they ne'ere refuse you , You needs must use 'em well ; that so did use you . Now all your virtual Kings must be desposed , Their tricks and juggling things are all disclosed , Their vows , and their results , now cannot save 'em , And for their close consults , the Devil will have them . King CHARLES is lose at last , the Scots have sold him , And when you had him fast , you could not hold him , He is now on his way , hee'l no more sue t'yee Fairfax hath played fair play , and done his duty . Your proud Presbytery Cannot protect you Your wise directory Cannot direct you , we shall have Bishops store , with Copes and Miters Buff coats shall preach no more , nor Priests be fighters . Your Wednesdayes and your ways of humiliation . Your strange thanksgiving days , of profanation Now must be laid aside , Christmas is lost else Old Easter Whitsontide , and the Apostles , Your propositions and Qualifications Your Protestations and your abjurations . Your Covenant and your Oath , of Nonadherence , Will make the Houses both to flee for fear hence . Now down with Goldsmiths Hall that Golden Idol That dreadful Tribunal that did decide all . Let's have our wives again , now you have fleec'd 'em . They'l serve delinquent men , though you have sqeezd 'em Rise up you Phelistins leave of your humming Repent you of your sins King Charles is Coming . Fairfax and Cromwell too are at Saint Albone They'l knock down more of you , then Sampsons jaw-bon Mr. FINIS . 