The Subtle Damsel : OR , Good Counsel for MAIDS . Wherein she shows to every Maiden fair , To take heed of false young Men wherever they are : For Frummety Dick does love well the Kettle , And Porrige-Pot Will is a Man of great Mettle . To the Tune of , The foolish Husband . I Once had a Servant , as other Maids have , That pretended to love me , but he proved a Knave : He thought by his Tricks to overcome me , But I was as cunning and crafty as he . His Tongue was so tipped with Temptations , that I Out of his presence or sighed could not lie ; He call'd me his honey , his duck and his dear ; But now his Words to me he does them forswear . But now I am free from him , I'm glad in my Heart ; I's never be said , I will mourn when we par But unto all Maids now the Truth I will show To take heed of false young Men wherever they go . I' th' first place take heed , and beware what I say , For when you are bound , they'll force you to obey : Ne'er trust a Man that hath a read Nose , Before he'll want his Liquour , he'll pawn your best Clothes . There's Dick came and Harry , both Robin and Will , Have showed themselves Clowns , and so they'll be still : For Peter at dancing , he put them all down ; But John kissed the best of all Men in the Town . But though I did promise him and count him the best , Yet he can Dissemble as well as the res From Eighteen to Thirty these young Men I mind , Loves a Wench in a corner , if they can them find . For this I'm resolved , and so I say still , There's not One among Twenty but he does prove ill ; Search every City and Town you shan't see A Man that proves constant and faithful to be . Though John of good Mettle , and counted so civil , At a Frummety Kettle he'll fight with the Devil : Or at Long-spoon and Custard he's a right honest Man : But I have forsook him , then love him who can . There's Bob a good Fellow , to give him his due : Such a young Man again I think there is but few : Yet with one Disease he is troubled I smell , If he meet with a Wench , he can't kiss her but tell . Also came the Taylor , and the Weaver I discern , The one is for Shreds , the other's for Yarn : These two boon Companion work hard I do see , And they're striving which of them the best Thief will be . Last Valentines Day I met with my Dear , He took me by the Hand , and led me to the Fair : He gave me fine Fairings , to kiss me was bold ; But at last I do give him the Dog for to hold . His eloquent Speeches could do him no good , I can give him fair Words , and then leave i' th' mud : He talked of deep Learning , but I did him tell That he went to School in some bottomless Well . The World now adais it is come to that pass , That every Boy now does look for a Lass : There's Bacon-fac'd Harry , as short as my Thumb , All Arse and no Body . Sing Come Pudding come . These young Men and more of them which I could name , To wrong pretty Maidens they think it no Shame : But what shou'd we speak on't ? it oft has been try'd , That honest young Men they cannot abide . Thus Maids have I told you some part of my Mind , How 'tis very hard a good Husband to find . Though my Love hath left me , to grieve I ne'er shall : If the rest prove no better , Old Neck take them all . FINIS . By J. Wade . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . The Subtle Damsel : OR , Good Counsel for MAIDS . Wherein she shows to every Maiden fair , To take heed of false young Men wherever they are : For Frummety Dick does love well the Kettle , And Porrige-Pot Will is a Man of great Mettle . To the Tune of , The foolish Husband . I Once had a Servant , as other Maids have , That pretended to love me , but he proved a Knave : He thought by his Tricks to overcome me , But I was as cunning and crafty as he . His Tongue was so tipped with Temptations , that I Out of his presence or sighed could not lie ; He call'd me his honey , his duck and his dear ; But now his Words to me he does them forswear . But now I am free from him , I'm glad in my Heart ; I's never be said , I will mourn when we par But unto all Maids now the Truth I will show To take heed of false young Men wherever they go . I' th' first place take heed , and beware what I say , For when you are bound , they'll force you to obey : Ne'er trust a Man that hath a read Nose , Before he'll want his Liquour , he'll pawn your best Clothes . There's Dick came and Harry , both Robin and Will , Have showed themselves Clowns , and so they'll be still : For Peter at dancing , he put them all down ; But John kissed the best of all Men in the Town . But though I did promise him and count him the best , Yet he can Dissemble as well as the res From Eighteen to Thirty these young Men I mind , Loves a Wench in a corner , if they can them find . For this I'm resolved , and so I say still , There's not One among Twenty but he does prove ill ; Search every City and Town you shan't see A Man that proves constant and faithful to be . Though John of good Mettle , and counted so civil , At a Frummety Kettle he'll fight with the Devil : Or at Long-spoon and Custard he's a right honest Man : But I have forsook him , then love him who can . There's Bob a good Fellow , to give him his due : Such a young Man again I think there is but few : Yet with one Disease he is troubled I smell , If he meet with a Wench , he can't kiss her but tell . Also came the Taylor , and the Weaver I discern , The one is for Shreds , the other's for Yarn : These two boon Companion work hard I do see , And they're striving which of them the best Thief will be . Last Valentines Day I met with my Dear , He took me by the Hand , and led me to the Fair : He gave me fine Fairings , to kiss me was bold ; But at last I do give him the Dog for to hold . His eloquent Speeches could do him no good , I can give him fair Words , and then leave i' th' mud : He talked of deep Learning , but I did him tell That he went to School in some bottomless Well . The World now adais it is come to that pass , That every Boy now does look for a Lass : There's Bacon-fac'd Harry , as short as my Thumb , All Arse and no Body . Sing Come Pudding come . These young Men and more of them which I could name , To wrong pretty Maidens they think it no Shame : But what shou'd we speak on't ? it oft has been try'd , That honest young Men they cannot abide . Thus Maids have I told you some part of my Mind , How 'tis very hard a good Husband to find . Though my Love hath left me , to grieve I ne'er shall : If the rest prove no better , Old Neck take them all . FINIS . By J. Wade . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 