Lord WILLOUGHBY : Being a true Relation of a famous and bloody BATTEL fought in Flanders , by the Noble and Valiant Lord Willoughby , with 1500 English , against 40000 Spa - niards , where the English obtain'd a notable Victory , to the Glory and Renown of our Nation . To the Tune of , Lord Willoughby , etc THe fifteenth Day of July , with glittering Spear and Shield , A famous Fight in Flanders , was soughten in the field : The most courageous Officers , was English Captains three ; But the bravest Man in Battle was brave Lord Willoughby . The next was Captain Norris , a valiant Man was he , The other Captain Turner , that from strid would never flee : With fifteen hundred fighting Men , alas , there was no more , Oh hes fought with forty thousand then upon the bloody shore . Stand to it noble Pikemen , and look you round about . And shoot you right you Bowmen , and we will keep them out . You Musket and Cavalier Men , do you prove true to me , I'll be the foremost Man in fight , says brave Lord Willoughby . And then the bloody Enemy they fiercely did assail , And fought it out most valiantly , not doubting to prevail : The wounded men on both sides fell , most piteously to see , Yet nothing could the courage quell of brave Lord Willoughby . For seven hours to all Men's view , this Fight endured soar , Until our Men so feeble grew that they could fight no more : And then upon dead Horses full savourly they eat ; And drank the Puddle-water , for no better could they get . When they had fed so freely , they kneeled on the ground , And praised God devoutly for the favour they had found : And bearing up their Colours , the fight they did renew , And turning towards the Spaniards , five thousand more they slew . The sharp steel pointed Arrows , and Bullets thick did fly , Then did our valiant Soldiers charge on most furiously : Which made the Spaniards waver , they thought it best to flee ; They fear'd the stout behaviour of brave Lord Willoughby . Then quoth the Spanish General , Come let us march away , I fear we shall be spoiled all , if that we longer stay : For yonder comes Lord Willoughby with courage fierce and fell , He will not give one inch of way for all the Devils in Hell . And then the fearful Enemy was quickly put to flight , Our Men pursu'd courageously , and rout their forces quite : But at the last they gave a shout , which echoed through the Sky , God and St. George for England , the Conquerors did cry . This news was brought to England with all the speed might be ; And told unto our gracious Queen of this same Victory : Oh this is brave , Lord Willoughby my love hath ever wone , Of all the Lords of Honour 'tis he great deeds hath done . For Soldiers that were maimed and wounded in the fray , The Queen allow'd a Pension of eighteenpence a day ; Beside all cost and charges she quit and set them free ; And this she did all for the sake of brave Lord Willoughby . Then courage noble English Men , and never be dismay'd , If that we be but one to ten , we will not be afraid , To fight with foreign Enemies , and set out Nation free ; And thus I end the bloody bout of brave Lord Willoughby . London : Printed for A. M. W. O. and T. Thackeray , in Du [ ck ] - lane . Lord WILLOUGHBY : Being a true Relation of a famous and bloody BATTEL fought in Flanders , by the Noble and Valiant Lord Willoughby , with 1500 English , against 40000 Spa - niards , where the English obtain'd a notable Victory , to the Glory and Renown of our Nation . To the Tune of , Lord Willoughby , etc THe fifteenth Day of July , with glittering Spear and Shield , A famous Fight in Flanders , was soughten in the field : The most courageous Officers , was English Captains three ; But the bravest Man in Battle was brave Lord Willoughby . The next was Captain Norris , a valiant Man was he , The other Captain Turner , that from strid would never flee : With fifteen hundred fighting Men , alas , there was no more , Oh hes fought with forty thousand then upon the bloody shore . Stand to it noble Pikemen , and look you round about . And shoot you right you Bowmen , and we will keep them out . You Musket and Cavalier Men , do you prove true to me , I'll be the foremost Man in fight , says brave Lord Willoughby . And then the bloody Enemy they fiercely did assail , And fought it out most valiantly , not doubting to prevail : The wounded men on both sides fell , most piteously to see , Yet nothing could the courage quell of brave Lord Willoughby . For seven hours to all Men's view , this Fight endured soar , Until our Men so feeble grew that they could fight no more : And then upon dead Horses full savourly they eat ; And drank the Puddle-water , for no better could they get . When they had fed so freely , they kneeled on the ground , And praised God devoutly for the favour they had found : And bearing up their Colours , the fight they did renew , And turning towards the Spaniards , five thousand more they slew . The sharp steel pointed Arrows , and Bullets thick did fly , Then did our valiant Soldiers charge on most furiously : Which made the Spaniards waver , they thought it best to flee ; They fear'd the stout behaviour of brave Lord Willoughby . Then quoth the Spanish General , Come let us march away , I fear we shall be spoiled all , if that we longer stay : For yonder comes Lord Willoughby with courage fierce and fell , He will not give one inch of way for all the Devils in Hell . And then the fearful Enemy was quickly put to flight , Our Men pursu'd courageously , and rout their forces quite : But at the last they gave a shout , which echoed through the Sky , God and St. George for England , the Conquerors did cry . This news was brought to England with all the speed might be ; And told unto our gracious Queen of this same Victory : Oh this is brave , Lord Willoughby my love hath ever wone , Of all the Lords of Honour 'tis he great deeds hath done . For Soldiers that were maimed and wounded in the fray , The Queen allow'd a Pension of eighteenpence a day ; Beside all cost and charges she quit and set them free ; And this she did all for the sake of brave Lord Willoughby . Then courage noble English Men , and never be dismay'd , If that we be but one to ten , we will not be afraid , To fight with foreign Enemies , and set out Nation free ; And thus I end the bloody bout of brave Lord Willoughby . London : Printed for A. M. W. O. and T. Thackeray , in Du [ ck ] - lane . 