THE TRAGICAL BALLAD OF THE NOBLEMAN's CRUELTY TO HIS SON . BOTH parents and lovers I pray now attend , Unto this relation which her I have penn'd , This of a young squire that now I do write , Who courted his father's maid day and night . Tho' she was a servant , of mean degree , And he a young squire , as rich as might be . He met his madam one day in the hall Unto her this compliment then he let fallen . Thou sweetest jewel , and joy of my heart , It's a pleasure to meet but a grief to part , Now grant me the favour thy joys to restore , Since never was lover so wounded before . For thee I have suffered much sorrow and pain , Therefore my jewel , do not me disdain , But send a soft glance from thy beautiful eye , To comfort thy love who anguishing lies , The damsel she stood like a person struck dumb , While blood like flashes of light'ning did come , At length sh [ e ] broke silence : young squire forbear , I am your servant therefore forbear . There's many young ladies of honour and fame , That's fit for your grandeur , and equal your name , But I am a damsel of mean degree Content in this station , your servant to be . There's none in the world I admire like thee , Then why will my jewel be cruel to me ? And cause me with anguish to sighs and complain , Oh wound me no more with cruel disdain . What weapon's comp [ a ] r [ e ] worser with the arrow of love It goes thro' the heart and often does prove , Destruction , if Cupid hath power to seize , If the wounds in our sleep we die by worser [ e ] grees . In letters of love I ove here I lie at your feet , Receive my petition vouchsafe to complete , My happiness in sweet raptures of joy , No longer be cruel , no longer be coy . What m [ ak [ es th [ e ] e si [ l ] ent sweet Susan the fair ? Why must I live between hope and despair ? O why in this lingering state must I bleed ? Restore me to life or dispatch me with speed , At his melting words she began to comply , With sighs from her heart and tears from her eyes , I consent noble squ [ i ] re to be your bride , But what will become of us both she cry'd . When the noble Kni [ i ] ght your father dear , And the good lady , your mother does hear ? We both shall be ruin'd , Ne'er fear it said he , My dear Susan be wedded in private to me . NEXT morning in private they both wedded were No triumph was seen , but industrious care , He kiss'd her , and said I [ ' ] ll be true to thee dear , And no friend I have this blessing shall hear , So love I would have you be p [ r ] ivate awhile , Discover it not , tho' you should be with child Speak nothing of wedding , speak nothing of me , For fear my parents prove cruel to thee . Take courage and suffer shame for awhile , Until my parents we can reconcile ; And in a short time we shall come to agree , If thou dear jewel will be ru [ l ] 'd by me With kisses and loving embraces likewise , She vow'd she would , with tears in her eyes , They parted and none of his friends it is said , Knew that the squire had wedded his maid But now comes the grief and sorrow at last , When five or six m [ oh ] nths were gone and passed , So large in the waist she began to show , Her coats and aprons too short did grow . Her lady said what is the matter now , Methinks you look mighty big Mrs Sue , Come tell with whom you the wanton play'd , For you are with child . Yet nothing she said . What spark Mrs. Susan has led you astray , Come tell me or else I will turn you away Yet she would say nothing but [ tO ] s [ e ] em'd discontent , With tears in her eyes from her service she went . To one of the tO [ e ] nants then straight she did go , And there did abide in sorrow and woe , Unti [ l ] travailng pains came on her so fast , As woman and midwife where sent for at last . Now while this poor soul was in racking pain , The woman and midwife with much disdain , Come tell us the father the midwife did cry , Or else you in sorrow and anguish must lie . And honest good husb [ a ] and I have I declare , Whose honour [ e ] worser name awhil [ e ] I forbear , To mention , altho' my life I do pay For my sweet husband I'll never b [ e ] tray . Because of his noble honour and fam , Then came in the squire the squire by name . Who under the window had listen [ ' ] worser awhile , Crying out midwife , Deliver the child H [ oh ] w dare you deny to deliver my wife , Whom I do love as dear as my life , The midwife and woman said Madam fit down , And soon we will bring the young squire a son . BUT as to what follows in the third part , I'm sure it will pierce each true lover's heart , I think in all England the like ne'er was known , And so I pray take heed every one . It was told his parents the very next day , How Mrs. Susan whom they turned away , For being with child was her son's wife , Who vows that he loves her as dear as his life , I cannot believe it , the father he said , Nor I , says his mother , she's none of his bride , Now while they were talking the squire came in , When soon his sorrow and grief did begin . We wish you much joy the father he said , Was there not one more fit to be your bride , Than Mrs. Susan of parents so poor , If she be your bride we'll own you no more . The squire then fell upon his knees , Dear parents , you may do as you please , Altho' the same should cost me my life , Sweet Susan indeed , I have chosen for my wife , And should be the same was she poorer than Job , And I a prince royal or lord of the globe , That jewel , Sweet Susan , I swear shall be mine , Well well said the mother , it is my design . To banish you both tho' it cost me my life , You'll have but small comfort in her for a wife , His mother away in passion did run , Declaring she'd murder both her and her son , What meanest thou thus , Oh mother said he , It is no christian [ ' ] s part thus cruel to be , Oh worst of women , what would you have done , Murder poor innocents to plague your son , The lady his mother with ambitious heart , Said nothing to him but thence did depart , Now in a short time after they found out a way , The life of a squire , the son to betray . The very next morning they sent for their son , I have sweet [ oh ] rn , said the father , and it must be done , Come strive for to please your mother and me , Tomorrow my son you are bound for the sea . Along with brave Ormond and Rooke you must go To fight the proud French and Spaniards also , And in the mean time I will strive my dear child , For to make your mother and you reconcil'd , I'll likewise be kind to your wife and son , Well then noble father , your will shall be done , He came to his Susan with a heart full of woe , And said my dear jewel from you I must go , Therefore , my sweet wife , I bid you adieu , Since my cruel parents they do force me from you , Alas ! for to plough the watery main , Kind heaven protect thee till I come again . My father commands me to sail next wind , I hope in short time to us he'll be kind . Now while he was telling his sorrowful tale , The wind it grew high , and the ship set sail . THEY sail'd next morning for the coast of Spain , But Oh! the poor squire return'd not again . A desperate cannon ball , did separate , His head from his body , at Vigo of late . 'Tis thought that his parents had order'd it so , If possible he should be slave by the foe , For in a short time after as I do declare , The ghost of the squire to him did appear , And came to his father and mother that night , The room it appear'd like day , 'twas so light , The apparition appear'd in blood , With his head in his hand at the bed side he stood . With three bitters groans he was herd to cry , It was you , cruel mother , caused my destiny , And then with a groan or two , vanish'd away , But still he appear'd unto them each day . With them in a coach at noonday did ride , And walked in the garden close by their side : And many a prank with his mother he play'd , It is no great matter , his father he said Thro' my cruel pride , I have lost my son , Thou worst of women , see what thou hast done , So to his son's wife , he went as we hear , And settled upon her two hundred a year . Unknown to my lady , sweet daughter , said he , This is to maintain my grandson , and thee , By reason your husband my son is dead , Oh! then I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd she said , Was ever poor damsel afflicted like me , My sweetest of husbands is dead in the sea , She kiss'd her dear infant a thousand times o'er . Now thy father is dead , none but thee I adore . Do not , my dear daughter , be dissatisfied , For you and your infant I THE TRAGICAL BALLAD OF THE NOBLEMAN's CRUELTY TO HIS SON . BOTH parents and lovers I pray now attend , Unto this relation which her I have penn'd , This of a young squire that now I do write , Who courted his father's maid day and night . Tho' she was a servant , of mean degree , And he a young squire , as rich as might be . He met his madam one day in the hall Unto her this compliment then he let fallen . Thou sweetest jewel , and joy of my heart , It's a pleasure to meet but a grief to part , Now grant me the favour thy joys to restore , Since never was lover so wounded before . For thee I have suffered much sorrow and pain , Therefore my jewel , do not me disdain , But send a soft glance from thy beautiful eye , To comfort thy love who anguishing lies , The damsel she stood like a person struck dumb , While blood like flashes of light'ning did come , At length sh [ e ] broke silence : young squire forbear , I am your servant therefore forbear . There's many young ladies of honour and fame , That's fit for your grandeur , and equal your name , But I am a damsel of mean degree Content in this station , your servant to be . There's none in the world I admire like thee , Then why will my jewel be cruel to me ? And cause me with anguish to sighs and complain , Oh wound me no more with cruel disdain . What weapon's comp [ a ] r [ e ] worser with the arrow of love It goes thro' the heart and often does prove , Destruction , if Cupid hath power to seize , If the wounds in our sleep we die by worser [ e ] grees . In letters of love I ove here I lie at your feet , Receive my petition vouchsafe to complete , My happiness in sweet raptures of joy , No longer be cruel , no longer be coy . What m [ ak [ es th [ e ] e si [ l ] ent sweet Susan the fair ? Why must I live between hope and despair ? O why in this lingering state must I bleed ? Restore me to life or dispatch me with speed , At his melting words she began to comply , With sighs from her heart and tears from her eyes , I consent noble squ [ i ] re to be your bride , But what will become of us both she cry'd . When the noble Kni [ i ] ght your father dear , And the good lady , your mother does hear ? We both shall be ruin'd , Ne'er fear it said he , My dear Susan be wedded in private to me . NEXT morning in private they both wedded were No triumph was seen , but industrious care , He kiss'd her , and said I [ ' ] ll be true to thee dear , And no friend I have this blessing shall hear , So love I would have you be p [ r ] ivate awhile , Discover it not , tho' you should be with child Speak nothing of wedding , speak nothing of me , For fear my parents prove cruel to thee . Take courage and suffer shame for awhile , Until my parents we can reconcile ; And in a short time we shall come to agree , If thou dear jewel will be ru [ l ] 'd by me With kisses and loving embraces likewise , She vow'd she would , with tears in her eyes , They parted and none of his friends it is said , Knew that the squire had wedded his maid But now comes the grief and sorrow at last , When five or six m [ oh ] nths were gone and passed , So large in the waist she began to show , Her coats and aprons too short did grow . Her lady said what is the matter now , Methinks you look mighty big Mrs Sue , Come tell with whom you the wanton play'd , For you are with child . Yet nothing she said . What spark Mrs. Susan has led you astray , Come tell me or else I will turn you away Yet she would say nothing but [ tO ] s [ e ] em'd discontent , With tears in her eyes from her service she went . To one of the tO [ e ] nants then straight she did go , And there did abide in sorrow and woe , Unti [ l ] travailng pains came on her so fast , As woman and midwife where sent for at last . Now while this poor soul was in racking pain , The woman and midwife with much disdain , Come tell us the father the midwife did cry , Or else you in sorrow and anguish must lie . And honest good husb [ a ] and I have I declare , Whose honour [ e ] worser name awhil [ e ] I forbear , To mention , altho' my life I do pay For my sweet husband I'll never b [ e ] tray . Because of his noble honour and fam , Then came in the squire the squire by name . Who under the window had listen [ ' ] worser awhile , Crying out midwife , Deliver the child H [ oh ] w dare you deny to deliver my wife , Whom I do love as dear as my life , The midwife and woman said Madam fit down , And soon we will bring the young squire a son . BUT as to what follows in the third part , I'm sure it will pierce each true lover's heart , I think in all England the like ne'er was known , And so I pray take heed every one . It was told his parents the very next day , How Mrs. Susan whom they turned away , For being with child was her son's wife , Who vows that he loves her as dear as his life , I cannot believe it , the father he said , Nor I , says his mother , she's none of his bride , Now while they were talking the squire came in , When soon his sorrow and grief did begin . We wish you much joy the father he said , Was there not one more fit to be your bride , Than Mrs. Susan of parents so poor , If she be your bride we'll own you no more . The squire then fell upon his knees , Dear parents , you may do as you please , Altho' the same should cost me my life , Sweet Susan indeed , I have chosen for my wife , And should be the same was she poorer than Job , And I a prince royal or lord of the globe , That jewel , Sweet Susan , I swear shall be mine , Well well said the mother , it is my design . To banish you both tho' it cost me my life , You'll have but small comfort in her for a wife , His mother away in passion did run , Declaring she'd murder both her and her son , What meanest thou thus , Oh mother said he , It is no christian [ ' ] s part thus cruel to be , Oh worst of women , what would you have done , Murder poor innocents to plague your son , The lady his mother with ambitious heart , Said nothing to him but thence did depart , Now in a short time after they found out a way , The life of a squire , the son to betray . The very next morning they sent for their son , I have sweet [ oh ] rn , said the father , and it must be done , Come strive for to please your mother and me , Tomorrow my son you are bound for the sea . Along with brave Ormond and Rooke you must go To fight the proud French and Spaniards also , And in the mean time I will strive my dear child , For to make your mother and you reconcil'd , I'll likewise be kind to your wife and son , Well then noble father , your will shall be done , He came to his Susan with a heart full of woe , And said my dear jewel from you I must go , Therefore , my sweet wife , I bid you adieu , Since my cruel parents they do force me from you , Alas ! for to plough the watery main , Kind heaven protect thee till I come again . My father commands me to sail next wind , I hope in short time to us he'll be kind . Now while he was telling his sorrowful tale , The wind it grew high , and the ship set sail . THEY sail'd next morning for the coast of Spain , But Oh! the poor squire return'd not again . A desperate cannon ball , did separate , His head from his body , at Vigo of late . 'Tis thought that his parents had order'd it so , If possible he should be slave by the foe , For in a short time after as I do declare , The ghost of the squire to him did appear , And came to his father and mother that night , The room it appear'd like day , 'twas so light , The apparition appear'd in blood , With his head in his hand at the bed side he stood . With three bitters groans he was herd to cry , It was you , cruel mother , caused my destiny , And then with a groan or two , vanish'd away , But still he appear'd unto them each day . With them in a coach at noonday did ride , And walked in the garden close by their side : And many a prank with his mother he play'd , It is no great matter , his father he said Thro' my cruel pride , I have lost my son , Thou worst of women , see what thou hast done , So to his son's wife , he went as we hear , And settled upon her two hundred a year . Unknown to my lady , sweet daughter , said he , This is to maintain my grandson , and thee , By reason your husband my son is dead , Oh! then I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd she said , Was ever poor damsel afflicted like me , My sweetest of husbands is dead in the sea , She kiss'd her dear infant a thousand times o'er . Now thy father is dead , none but thee I adore . Do not , my dear daughter , be dissatisfied , For you and your infant I mean to provide , 'Twas my unkind lady caused this discontent , And so up to London away she was sent . Where now I will leave her in sorrow and woe , To show how the spirit perplexed them so , And causes them to lament day and night . When straight for the clergy , his father did write . When these learned men from Oxford did come , If you can but lay the spirit of my son , Five hundred pounds to you I will pay , He haunts me wherever I go night and day , Most part of the night he did with them contend , At last , being conquer'd , he begg'd of them , That they would not put him into the Read Sea , No , no said clergy , we grant it to thee . Sir Knight , said the clergy where shall it be laid , In my pond under that island he said Now in this island e'er since has been seen , A small tree , which in winter and summer is green . His father said I have ruin'd my son His mother cried out , Oh! what have I done ! His wife laments for her own squire dear , And so let the tragical story end here . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . mean to provide , 'Twas my unkind lady caused this discontent , And so up to London away she was sent . Where now I will leave her in sorrow and woe , To show how the spirit perplexed them so , And causes them to lament day and night . When straight for the clergy , his father did write . When these learned men from Oxford did come , If you can but lay the spirit of my son , Five hundred pounds to you I will pay , He haunts me wherever I go night and day , Most part of the night he did with them contend , At last , being conquer'd , he begg'd of them , That they would not put him into the Read Sea , No , no said clergy , we grant it to thee . Sir Knight , said the clergy where shall it be laid , In my pond under that island he said Now in this island e'er since has been seen , A small tree , which in winter and summer is green . His father said I have ruin'd my son His mother cried out , Oh! what have I done ! His wife laments for her own squire dear , And so let the tragical story end here . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . 