The Woman to the Blow AND The Man to the Hen-Roost . OR , a fine way to cure a Cot-Quean , The Tune is , I have for all good wives a Song . BOth Men and Women listen well , A merry Jest I will you tell , Betwixt a Good man and his Wife , Who fell the other day at strife : He chid her for her Huswivery , And she found fault as well as he . With him fors work without the doors , Quoth he , a pox on all such whores , Sith you and I cannot agree , Let's change our work , content , quoth she , My Wheel and Distafe here take thou , And I will drive the Cart and Blow . This was concluded betwixt them both , To Cart and Blow the goodwife goes The goodman he at home does tarry , To see that nothing does miscarry , And apron he before him put , Judge was not this a handsome slut . He fleets the Milk , he makes the Cheese He gropes the Hens the ducks & Geese , He Brews and Bakes as well as he can , But not as it should be done , poor man : As did make his Cheese one day , Two Pigs their Bellies broke with whey , Nothing that he in hand did take , Did come to good , once he did Bake , And burned the Bred as black as a stock Another time he went to R [ oh ] ck The Cradle , and threw the Child o'th floor And broke his Nose , and hurt it soar . He went to milk one Evening tide , A Skittish Cow on the wrong side , His pail was full of milk God wot , She kict and spilled it every jot , Beside she hit him a blost o'th face Which was scant well in six weeks space , Thus was he served , and yet to well And more mischances yet befell , Before his apron he'd leave off , Though all his Neighbours did him scoff , Now lift and mark one pretty jest , 'Twill make you laugh above all the rest , As he to churm his Butter went , One Morning with a good intent , The Cot quean fool did surely dream , For he had quite forgotten the Cream , He Churn'd all day , with all his might , And yet he could get no Butter at night , It strange indeed for me to utter That without Cream he should make butter now having shew'd his huswivery , Who did all things thus untowardly , Unto the goodwife I'le turn my Rhime , And tell you how she spent her time , She us'd to drive the Cart and Blow , But do't well she knew not how , She made so many banks i'th ground , He been better have given five pound , That she had never tan'e in hand , So sorely she did spoil the Land , As she did go to Sow likewise , She made a Feast for Crows and Pies , She threw away a hanful at a place , And left all bore another space , At the Harrow she could not rule the Mare But hid one Land , and left two bore . And shortly after one a day As she came home with a Load of Hay , She overthrew it nay and worse , She broke the Cart and kill'd a Horse : The goodman that time had ill luck , He let in the Sow and kill'd a Duck , And being grieved at his heart For loss on's Duck , his Horse and Cart , The many hurts on both sides done , His eyes did with salt water run : Then now , quoth he , full well I see , The Wheels for her the Plow's for me , I the entreat , quoth he , goodwife , To take thy Charge , and all my life I'le never m [ e ] ddle with huswivery more , Nor find such faults as I did before , Give me the Cart-whip and the Frail Take thou the Churn and milking pail . The good wife she was well content , And about her Huswivery , she went . He to Hedging and to Ditching , Heaping , Mowing , Lading , Pitching , He would be twa [ tO ] ling still before , But after that ne'r twatled more . I Wish all Wives that troubled be , With Hose and Doublet Huswivery , To [ se ] rve tO [ h ] em as this woman did . That [ e ] n ma [ y ] they work and ne'r be chid , Thoug [ h ] she it'h intrim had some loss , Thereby she was eas [ e ] worser of a Cross , Take heed of this y [ oh ] u husbandmen , Let Wives alone to grope the Hen , And meddle you with the Horse and Ox And keep your Lambs safe from the Fox , So shall you live Contented lives , And take sweet pleasure in your Wives . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Woman to the Blow AND The Man to the Hen-Roost . OR , a fine way to cure a Cot-Quean , The Tune is , I have for all good wives a Song . BOth Men and Women listen well , A merry Jest I will you tell , Betwixt a Good man and his Wife , Who fell the other day at strife : He chid her for her Huswivery , And she found fault as well as he . With him fors work without the doors , Quoth he , a pox on all such whores , Sith you and I cannot agree , Let's change our work , content , quoth she , My Wheel and Distafe here take thou , And I will drive the Cart and Blow . This was concluded betwixt them both , To Cart and Blow the goodwife goes The goodman he at home does tarry , To see that nothing does miscarry , And apron he before him put , Judge was not this a handsome slut . He fleets the Milk , he makes the Cheese He gropes the Hens the ducks & Geese , He Brews and Bakes as well as he can , But not as it should be done , poor man : As did make his Cheese one day , Two Pigs their Bellies broke with whey , Nothing that he in hand did take , Did come to good , once he did Bake , And burned the Bred as black as a stock Another time he went to R [ oh ] ck The Cradle , and threw the Child o'th floor And broke his Nose , and hurt it soar . He went to milk one Evening tide , A Skittish Cow on the wrong side , His pail was full of milk God wot , She kict and spilled it every jot , Beside she hit him a blost o'th face Which was scant well in six weeks space , Thus was he served , and yet to well And more mischances yet befell , Before his apron he'd leave off , Though all his Neighbours did him scoff , Now lift and mark one pretty jest , 'Twill make you laugh above all the rest , As he to churm his Butter went , One Morning with a good intent , The Cot quean fool did surely dream , For he had quite forgotten the Cream , He Churn'd all day , with all his might , And yet he could get no Butter at night , It strange indeed for me to utter That without Cream he should make butter now having shew'd his huswivery , Who did all things thus untowardly , Unto the goodwife I'le turn my Rhime , And tell you how she spent her time , She us'd to drive the Cart and Blow , But do't well she knew not how , She made so many banks i'th ground , He been better have given five pound , That she had never tan'e in hand , So sorely she did spoil the Land , As she did go to Sow likewise , She made a Feast for Crows and Pies , She threw away a hanful at a place , And left all bore another space , At the Harrow she could not rule the Mare But hid one Land , and left two bore . And shortly after one a day As she came home with a Load of Hay , She overthrew it nay and worse , She broke the Cart and kill'd a Horse : The goodman that time had ill luck , He let in the Sow and kill'd a Duck , And being grieved at his heart For loss on's Duck , his Horse and Cart , The many hurts on both sides done , His eyes did with salt water run : Then now , quoth he , full well I see , The Wheels for her the Plow's for me , I the entreat , quoth he , goodwife , To take thy Charge , and all my life I'le never m [ e ] ddle with huswivery more , Nor find such faults as I did before , Give me the Cart-whip and the Frail Take thou the Churn and milking pail . The good wife she was well content , And about her Huswivery , she went . He to Hedging and to Ditching , Heaping , Mowing , Lading , Pitching , He would be twa [ tO ] ling still before , But after that ne'r twatled more . I Wish all Wives that troubled be , With Hose and Doublet Huswivery , To [ se ] rve tO [ h ] em as this woman did . That [ e ] n ma [ y ] they work and ne'r be chid , Thoug [ h ] she it'h intrim had some loss , Thereby she was eas [ e ] worser of a Cross , Take heed of this y [ oh ] u husbandmen , Let Wives alone to grope the Hen , And meddle you with the Horse and Ox And keep your Lambs safe from the Fox , So shall you live Contented lives , And take sweet pleasure in your Wives . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 