The Negative PROPHESY found under the Ruins of WHITE-HALL . I Sing NOT of Jove's Mighty Thunder , The New made Lords , or Vigo Plunder ; Nor of the C --- ns Godly Frolic , To settle Christ's Church Apostolic , Nor of the Pious Convocation , Clearer than Doves from Gall or Passion : How those Grave Rabies , to a Wonder , Kept Her [ l ] sies and Schisms under : How Binks and Kimberly did Shine In that Dark Orb with Rays Divine . With what Devotion and Behaviour The Saucy Priest Blasphem'd our Saviour , How each his Talon did Exert With Arguments not worth a F ------ rt , To prove that plainly a Majori No Reverence was due Superiory . Whither it was for Ostentation , Or to promote our Reformation ; Or to Repent for telling Tales And Drinking N ------ ts to to the Pr ------ of W ------ s . That M ------ w , top full of Grace , In Royal Chair refus'd her place . I tell not why the --- content To share with her the Government Nor do I care how many Scars Our Beaus do bring from Field of Mars ; Whither the Noisy Fops , at Wills , Do go to Hell to Pay their Bills , When they'l take Antwerp or Ostend , When matters on the Rhine will mend , Or when the War will have and End. When Leopoldus will grow Wise , The Sweed lay by his French Disguise , The Czar well bang'd to make him Quiet , The Poles by Bleeding and Low Diet With the Dull Swisse , restor'd again , Shake of the Ass and act like Men . Eugenus with his Vetrans sent To make the French a Carpi Compliment . When we shall get In ------ e And A --- --- y , with more Sense , Courtiers have less Knavery , Sea-Captains show more Bravery . When High Church Rampant shall agree To have Partners in their Roguery . J ------ n H ------ w and S ------ r with the rest Decree Neither to Bribe nor Punish Bribery : When under Cloaks and Cassocks there shall lie Nothing but Faith and Found Divinity , Then shall the Golden Age once more be seen , Then Heaven and Earth shall Sing God save the QUEEN . The Negative PROPHESY found under the Ruins of WHITE-HALL . I Sing NOT of Jove's Mighty Thunder , The New made Lords , or Vigo Plunder ; Nor of the C --- ns Godly Frolic , To settle Christ's Church Apostolic , Nor of the Pious Convocation , Clearer than Doves from Gall or Passion : How those Grave Rabies , to a Wonder , Kept Her [ l ] sies and Schisms under : How Binks and Kimberly did Shine In that Dark Orb with Rays Divine . With what Devotion and Behaviour The Saucy Priest Blasphem'd our Saviour , How each his Talon did Exert With Arguments not worth a F ------ rt , To prove that plainly a Majori No Reverence was due Superiory . Whither it was for Ostentation , Or to promote our Reformation ; Or to Repent for telling Tales And Drinking N ------ ts to to the Pr ------ of W ------ s . That M ------ w , top full of Grace , In Royal Chair refus'd her place . I tell not why the --- content To share with her the Government Nor do I care how many Scars Our Beaus do bring from Field of Mars ; Whither the Noisy Fops , at Wills , Do go to Hell to Pay their Bills , When they'l take Antwerp or Ostend , When matters on the Rhine will mend , Or when the War will have and End. When Leopoldus will grow Wise , The Sweed lay by his French Disguise , The Czar well bang'd to make him Quiet , The Poles by Bleeding and Low Diet With the Dull Swisse , restor'd again , Shake of the Ass and act like Men . Eugenus with his Vetrans sent To make the French a Carpi Compliment . When we shall get In ------ e And A --- --- y , with more Sense , Courtiers have less Knavery , Sea-Captains show more Bravery . When High Church Rampant shall agree To have Partners in their Roguery . J ------ n H ------ w and S ------ r with the rest Decree Neither to Bribe nor Punish Bribery : When under Cloaks and Cassocks there shall lie Nothing but Faith and Found Divinity , Then shall the Golden Age once more be seen , Then Heaven and Earth shall Sing God save the QUEEN . 