A Prospective-Glass FOR CHRISTIANS ; To behold the Reigning Sins of this AGE : OR , The Complaint of Truth and Conscience against Pride , Envy , Hatred , and Malice ; which is too much Practis'd in this present AGE . Tune of Monstrous Women . Licensed according to Order . AS in a Slumber I was laid , poor Conscience was making moan ; I saw sweet Truth in Rags array'd , dejected and all alone : I tell you the Aged as well as the Youth , They slighted and hated poor Conscience in Truth , But Dissimulation there's thousands will sooth : Oh Folly desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Sweet Truth immediately reply'd , the Nation may well complain , The Heart of Man is fill'd with Pride , and Malice does Rule and Reign : Ah Conscience ! I tell thee I find thou art poor , I see thou art Naked and turn'd out of door , The World sure was never so wicked before ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Some Men we find will rant and roar , and call it a merry Life , And oftentimes Embrace a Whore , and ruin and honest Wife : A Draggle-Tayl Drab they will cuddle and kiss , And call her sometime the Perfection of Bliss , For every Rascal must now have his Miss ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Young Harlots do like Porters ply , at every turning down , And when a Cully do's draw night , their Fair is but half a Crown : Then strait they both in a Coach must be put , The huffing young Gallant , the draggle-tayl Slut , While good honest People do walk it on Foot ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Pride of Women in this Land , was never in Eve our Mother ; See how their Top-Knots they do stand , one Story above another ! Their Necks are naked , their Breasts open wide , Black Patches , now Powder'd and Painted beside , I think that the Devil's in Women for Pride ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc Some Men will say the Crow's not Black , thus flatter before your Face , Then cut your Throat behind your Back , and that in a little space : Their Smiles shall be presently turn'd to a Frown They'll do what they can for to tumble you down , And ruin a Neighbour for less than a Crown ; Oh Malice , desperate Malice , etc The downright Man that cannot cog , nor flatter his Friend at all , Nor fawn , like to a Spaniel Dog , is often run down by all : But he that hath a smooth Tongue to comply , Can Compliment , Flatter , Dissemble and Lie , O this is and honest Man , straight they will cry ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Rich we find has many Friends , the poor they have few or none ; But when this painful Life it ends , we then shall be all as one : The wealthy Rich Miser , and crafty old Knave , He shall with the poor Man , lie down in the Grave , He shall but a Shroud or a Winding-sheet have ; Oh Mortals , covetous Mortals , Death we must all come to . Then what's the Glory of this World , for which we so much contend , When after Death we may be hurl'd , where Misery has no end ? Then while we are living and flourishing here , Oh labour to keep your Consciences clear , To part with this World then you need not to fear Hate Folly , desperate Folly , Death we all must come to . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . A Prospective-Glass FOR CHRISTIANS ; To behold the Reigning Sins of this AGE : OR , The Complaint of Truth and Conscience against Pride , Envy , Hatred , and Malice ; which is too much Practis'd in this present AGE . Tune of Monstrous Women . Licensed according to Order . AS in a Slumber I was laid , poor Conscience was making moan ; I saw sweet Truth in Rags array'd , dejected and all alone : I tell you the Aged as well as the Youth , They slighted and hated poor Conscience in Truth , But Dissimulation there's thousands will sooth : Oh Folly desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Sweet Truth immediately reply'd , the Nation may well complain , The Heart of Man is fill'd with Pride , and Malice does Rule and Reign : Ah Conscience ! I tell thee I find thou art poor , I see thou art Naked and turn'd out of door , The World sure was never so wicked before ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Some Men we find will rant and roar , and call it a merry Life , And oftentimes Embrace a Whore , and ruin and honest Wife : A Draggle-Tayl Drab they will cuddle and kiss , And call her sometime the Perfection of Bliss , For every Rascal must now have his Miss ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , What will this World come to ? Young Harlots do like Porters ply , at every turning down , And when a Cully do's draw night , their Fair is but half a Crown : Then strait they both in a Coach must be put , The huffing young Gallant , the draggle-tayl Slut , While good honest People do walk it on Foot ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Pride of Women in this Land , was never in Eve our Mother ; See how their Top-Knots they do stand , one Story above another ! Their Necks are naked , their Breasts open wide , Black Patches , now Powder'd and Painted beside , I think that the Devil's in Women for Pride ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc Some Men will say the Crow's not Black , thus flatter before your Face , Then cut your Throat behind your Back , and that in a little space : Their Smiles shall be presently turn'd to a Frown They'll do what they can for to tumble you down , And ruin a Neighbour for less than a Crown ; Oh Malice , desperate Malice , etc The downright Man that cannot cog , nor flatter his Friend at all , Nor fawn , like to a Spaniel Dog , is often run down by all : But he that hath a smooth Tongue to comply , Can Compliment , Flatter , Dissemble and Lie , O this is and honest Man , straight they will cry ; Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc The Rich we find has many Friends , the poor they have few or none ; But when this painful Life it ends , we then shall be all as one : The wealthy Rich Miser , and crafty old Knave , He shall with the poor Man , lie down in the Grave , He shall but a Shroud or a Winding-sheet have ; Oh Mortals , covetous Mortals , Death we must all come to . Then what's the Glory of this World , for which we so much contend , When after Death we may be hurl'd , where Misery has no end ? Then while we are living and flourishing here , Oh labour to keep your Consciences clear , To part with this World then you need not to fear Hate Folly , desperate Folly , Death we all must come to . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . A CALL to CHARON , To Carry the Dying Lover over to the ELIZIUM Shades : OR , The Discontented Lover Overcome with Grief . A Pleasant New Song greatly in Request . To the Tune of , Charon make haste , etc CHaron make haste and carry me over to the Elizium Shady Grove , Where I my Passion in sighs will discover , which I have suffered long for Love : I am a weary of my Life , and cannot be eased no , no where ; Then put a perjod to my Grief , and carry me where I may know no care . O my dear Sylva , 'tis thou that hast wounded me , with the soft glances of your fair Eyes , And with your hate you have quite confounded me , and you have made me a Sacrifice : I was a Slave to all your Charms , and perfectly thought you would comply ; But now you leave me in Death's cold Arms , and I must for your sake a poor Martyr die . Come Charon make haste , why is all this delaying , since Sylva the fair she is so unkind , I'm weary of Life , and weary of staying , and fain I some ease there now wou'd find : Come give me a cast to the cooler Shore , where kind Lovers Ghosts does there remain , Free from the Torments that wrack'd 'em before , and find a soft Cure for all their pain . Ah Sylva unkind , your Eyes did discover , if that you might be but subject to yield , Which made me before a passionate Lover , nor thought by your scorn for to be kill'd : But o ! since those promising Eyes , have deceiv'd my poor hope's , and destroy Those fancies that late did arise , that I might my dear Sylva enjoy . Farewell to the World , now barren of pleasure , for since none it can bring to my Breast , Since Sylva's unkind who is the World's teeasure , farewell to't , come Charon now make haste ; My pain's too great for longer delay , my Torment's beyond expressing , Since she is unkind , why should I stay , beside my Sylva , there's nought worth possessing Delay not a wretch quite weary of living , who dies by disdain every day , Since Sylva my life thinks not worth reprieving , Charon make haste and fetch me away : O'recome with pain , see , see I faint , and Death proves more kinder than my dear , Farewell then to my cruel Saint , for to the Shades I with speed now repair . To the Elizium Shades I am going , that is the place that my Cares will Cure , Down from my eyes here the tears they are flowing Love is a Torment I can't endure : My very Sighs and Tears discover , that I was ever true to you , Now my fair Sylva and most unkind Lover , for ever , for ever I bid adieu . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers Arms within Aldgate . A CALL to CHARON , To Carry the Dying Lover over to the ELIZIUM Shades : OR , The Discontented Lover Overcome with Grief . A Pleasant New Song greatly in Request . To the Tune of , Charon make haste , etc CHaron make haste and carry me over to the Elizium Shady Grove , Where I my Passion in sighs will discover , which I have suffered long for Love : I am a weary of my Life , and cannot be eased no , no where ; Then put a perjod to my Grief , and carry me where I may know no care . O my dear Sylva , 'tis thou that hast wounded me , with the soft glances of your fair Eyes , And with your hate you have quite confounded me , and you have made me a Sacrifice : I was a Slave to all your Charms , and perfectly thought you would comply ; But now you leave me in Death's cold Arms , and I must for your sake a poor Martyr die . Come Charon make haste , why is all this delaying , since Sylva the fair she is so unkind , I'm weary of Life , and weary of staying , and fain I some ease there now wou'd find : Come give me a cast to the cooler Shore , where kind Lovers Ghosts does there remain , Free from the Torments that wrack'd 'em before , and find a soft Cure for all their pain . Ah Sylva unkind , your Eyes did discover , if that you might be but subject to yield , Which made me before a passionate Lover , nor thought by your scorn for to be kill'd : But o ! since those promising Eyes , have deceiv'd my poor hope's , and destroy Those fancies that late did arise , that I might my dear Sylva enjoy . Farewell to the World , now barren of pleasure , for since none it can bring to my Breast , Since Sylva's unkind who is the World's teeasure , farewell to't , come Charon now make haste ; My pain's too great for longer delay , my Torment's beyond expressing , Since she is unkind , why should I stay , beside my Sylva , there's nought worth possessing Delay not a wretch quite weary of living , who dies by disdain every day , Since Sylva my life thinks not worth reprieving , Charon make haste and fetch me away : O'recome with pain , see , see I faint , and Death proves more kinder than my dear , Farewell then to my cruel Saint , for to the Shades I with speed now repair . To the Elizium Shades I am going , that is the place that my Cares will Cure , Down from my eyes here the tears they are flowing Love is a Torment I can't endure : My very Sighs and Tears discover , that I was ever true to you , Now my fair Sylva and most unkind Lover , for ever , for ever I bid adieu . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers Arms within Aldgate . 