The OXFORDSHIRE Garland . In FOUR PARTS . CHarming ladies fair , I'll to you declare Such a ditty that will make you weep ; If you will draw near the story you shall hear , And in your minds the subject doe but keep . In Oxford city there lived , you shall hear , A nobleman who had a vast estate ; And four daughters bright , in whom he took delight , But , alas ! unhappy was their fate . The youngest , it is told , was of beauteous mould , The loveliest creature sure that e'er was seen : And her father dear loved her , we hear , And to make her great indeed did moan . Her mother being dead , her sisters , as 'tis said , They never could endure her beauty bright ; Because her father he best respected her , So they sought her ruin day and night . A noble lord of fame down from London came , On purpose to see her father dear ; Young Cupid's keen dart pierc'd him to the heart , As soon as he saw this lady fair . Presently he said , since I am betray'd , I to her will soon disclose my mind ; And if she yields to love , by the powers above , I'm blessed if my jewel does prove kind . In the garden fair among the flowers rare , He chanced to espy his charming dove ; Cupid , be kind , said he , and wound her bitterly , That I can for ever keep my love . His mind he did declare : Beauteous lady fair , Since thou art a walking so retire ; I must show my mind , if you are unkind , Quickly does my life for you expire . With a graceful look then these words she spoke , Sir , my tender heart is yet unskill'd To know what love does mean : if I forward seem Then it is against my father's will . Charmer dear , he said , if you'll be my bride , I have gold to deck those charms so bright . To make them mine so gay , like the queen of May , Maids to wait upon thee day and night . In a little time this charmer divine , She did yield indeed to be his bride ; But in the second part 'twill pierce a harden'd heart To see how cruel fate did them divide . PART II THE other sisters they to wickedness gave way , One of them with a most vicious eye Viewed this noble lord , and said , Upon my word , If I don't enjoy him I must die . Strait she took to her bed much discomforted , At last her sisters unto her did say , What is it grieves you so ? prithee let us know , Then with weeping she soon did say , Oh that noble knight that courts our sister bright , He it is that causes all my woe . If I can't him enjoy this life I will destroy . Then to pierce her heart she strait did go . Her sisters thus did say , Fie , sister , fie , we pray , Do not to yourself be so severe . We'll tell him your mind , perhaps he'll be kind , Tho' our youngest sister is so fair . Then strait a letter penn'd , to the lord did send , For to let him know her lovesick mind ; Having read the same , and found whence it came , Said , Who can know the heart of womankind . He sent and answer thus , Pardon me you must , For your sister is the only she That's mistress of my heart , from her I'll not part , So pray mention this no more to me . Soon as the letter came , and they read the same , Strait in a furious passion then they flew ; We will revenged be , replied then all three , That is our sister who shall it rue . Her eldest sister she kept bad company , With a merchant of a vast estate ; With him she did agree to send her over sea , Which to these lovers prov'd unfortunate . This young harmless dove , with her tender love , Had appointed married to be : Her father gave consent , to their great content , But now observe their great treachery . It happen'd on a day they unto her did say , Sister , will you go and take the air ? She did consent to go , which prov'd her overthrow , For such a base thing never acted were . They brought this lady to the merchant we hear , As soon as he beheld her beauty bright , He stood like one amaz'd , and on her beauty gaz'd , Said , I'll have thee tho' I'm ruin'd by't . Down sat this lovely maid , her sister said , Now will you obey your father dear ? Now you with us must go , whither you will or no , Or else we unto you must prove severe . Presently she said , Am I so betray'd ? Then farewell to thee , my dearest love . If I should not you see , happy may you be , I ever constant unto thee will prove . In the third part , hear how this lady fair , By this cruel merchant was abus'd ; Yet kept her constancy 'till she her love did see , Such constancy sure is seldom us'd . PART III . ON board a ship indeed she was sent with speed , When by her base sisters she was left indeed : She wrung her hands and said , Whatever betide , Constant will I be while I have breath . Close confin'd was she 'till they sail'd away , Then her liberty she granted were ; The merchant for her sake could no comfort take , But he must enjoy this charming fair . Thus he broke his mind : Lovely maid , be kind , For it is so that none can us see : Let me but thee enjoy , so do not be coy ; And back again I'll bring thee over sea . With a disdainful look these words she spoke , Cruel creature , do you think that I Am thus frighted to be , because upon the sea , I plainly show your lust I do defy . I trust the powers above that I my dearest love May once again behold his charming face . But if the fates decree that it must never be , I can never by a traitor be embrac'd . When the merchant see she would not agree , Then to satisfy his wicked mind , He us'd her cruelly , for confin'd was she , Thinking that way to make her kind . But that would not do , tho' hardships she went thro' , Her prayers to Heaven she sent night and day , She might rescu'd be from his treachery , Good people , now observe her here , we pray . PART IV. THE ship , we hear , by distress of weather were Drove upon a rock , and split in twain ; And all perish'd there except this lady fair , And a sailor who plowed on the main . On a plank of wood they plowed on the flood , These poor souls did swim , as we hear ; Being toss'd mountains high , in this extremity , The plank was drove to land strait with them there . Being come to shore they prais'd the Lord , But , poor souls ! knew not what to do for food . No living man was there , only the island bore , And piercing with cold , alas ! they stood . Three nights and days these poor souls lay , With their frozen limbs upon the ground . The lady she did cry , for hunger I die , Unless some nourishment for me is found . The sailor said , Charming dearest maid , If my flesh your hunger would suffice , Pray take and eat your fill ; I love a woman still . But once more to Heaven send your cries . As they were at prayer a ship did appear , Just discernible unto the eye : They went to the seaside , the sailor he espy'd , And both aloud to them they cry'd . The boat put out with speed , and took them indeed , Strait before the captain they were brought . The lady did declare whose daughter she were . And how her sisters had her ruin sought . Great care was taken there of this lady fair , And the poor distressed sailor too . We'll leave them on the main , and return again , To see how things with her father did go . When first she missing were her father I declare , And her lover likewise made great moan , Lest she should murder'd be , also her sisters three Said , Alas ! alas ! where is she gone . They not mistrusted were by her father dear , But her lover he began to think That by their treachery she must murder'd be , When the letter they unto him sent . Then the old lord call'd his daughters three , As soon as they into his presence came They trembled every limb , and concerned seem'd . Then he strait did say unto them , Where's your sister , you've kill'd her , I fear , And her trembling ghost last night I see . Then hearing him say so , their eyes [ ? ] And then unfolded all the treachery . Which when her love did hear he tor [ e his h ] air , And said , Oh that charming beauteous maid , Direct me , Gods ! he cry'd , over the ocean wide , Oh! cruel creatures , that my love betray'd . Oh! guard her night and day , Heaven , I do pray : Keep her safe 'till I see her face . I'll wander for her sake , no comfort can I take . O Gods above ! direct me to the place . Her father tore his hair , solemnly did swear , That they unto prison should be sent ; Their tears did not prevail , they were sent to jail , While day and night at home he did lament . Her lover , as we hear , making ready were , In order to cross the raging seas , But strait a letter came to prevent that The OXFORDSHIRE Garland . In FOUR PARTS . CHarming ladies fair , I'll to you declare Such a ditty that will make you weep ; If you will draw near the story you shall hear , And in your minds the subject doe but keep . In Oxford city there lived , you shall hear , A nobleman who had a vast estate ; And four daughters bright , in whom he took delight , But , alas ! unhappy was their fate . The youngest , it is told , was of beauteous mould , The loveliest creature sure that e'er was seen : And her father dear loved her , we hear , And to make her great indeed did moan . Her mother being dead , her sisters , as 'tis said , They never could endure her beauty bright ; Because her father he best respected her , So they sought her ruin day and night . A noble lord of fame down from London came , On purpose to see her father dear ; Young Cupid's keen dart pierc'd him to the heart , As soon as he saw this lady fair . Presently he said , since I am betray'd , I to her will soon disclose my mind ; And if she yields to love , by the powers above , I'm blessed if my jewel does prove kind . In the garden fair among the flowers rare , He chanced to espy his charming dove ; Cupid , be kind , said he , and wound her bitterly , That I can for ever keep my love . His mind he did declare : Beauteous lady fair , Since thou art a walking so retire ; I must show my mind , if you are unkind , Quickly does my life for you expire . With a graceful look then these words she spoke , Sir , my tender heart is yet unskill'd To know what love does mean : if I forward seem Then it is against my father's will . Charmer dear , he said , if you'll be my bride , I have gold to deck those charms so bright . To make them mine so gay , like the queen of May , Maids to wait upon thee day and night . In a little time this charmer divine , She did yield indeed to be his bride ; But in the second part 'twill pierce a harden'd heart To see how cruel fate did them divide . PART II THE other sisters they to wickedness gave way , One of them with a most vicious eye Viewed this noble lord , and said , Upon my word , If I don't enjoy him I must die . Strait she took to her bed much discomforted , At last her sisters unto her did say , What is it grieves you so ? prithee let us know , Then with weeping she soon did say , Oh that noble knight that courts our sister bright , He it is that causes all my woe . If I can't him enjoy this life I will destroy . Then to pierce her heart she strait did go . Her sisters thus did say , Fie , sister , fie , we pray , Do not to yourself be so severe . We'll tell him your mind , perhaps he'll be kind , Tho' our youngest sister is so fair . Then strait a letter penn'd , to the lord did send , For to let him know her lovesick mind ; Having read the same , and found whence it came , Said , Who can know the heart of womankind . He sent and answer thus , Pardon me you must , For your sister is the only she That's mistress of my heart , from her I'll not part , So pray mention this no more to me . Soon as the letter came , and they read the same , Strait in a furious passion then they flew ; We will revenged be , replied then all three , That is our sister who shall it rue . Her eldest sister she kept bad company , With a merchant of a vast estate ; With him she did agree to send her over sea , Which to these lovers prov'd unfortunate . This young harmless dove , with her tender love , Had appointed married to be : Her father gave consent , to their great content , But now observe their great treachery . It happen'd on a day they unto her did say , Sister , will you go and take the air ? She did consent to go , which prov'd her overthrow , For such a base thing never acted were . They brought this lady to the merchant we hear , As soon as he beheld her beauty bright , He stood like one amaz'd , and on her beauty gaz'd , Said , I'll have thee tho' I'm ruin'd by't . Down sat this lovely maid , her sister said , Now will you obey your father dear ? Now you with us must go , whither you will or no , Or else we unto you must prove severe . Presently she said , Am I so betray'd ? Then farewell to thee , my dearest love . If I should not you see , happy may you be , I ever constant unto thee will prove . In the third part , hear how this lady fair , By this cruel merchant was abus'd ; Yet kept her constancy 'till she her love did see , Such constancy sure is seldom us'd . PART III . ON board a ship indeed she was sent with speed , When by her base sisters she was left indeed : She wrung her hands and said , Whatever betide , Constant will I be while I have breath . Close confin'd was she 'till they sail'd away , Then her liberty she granted were ; The merchant for her sake could no comfort take , But he must enjoy this charming fair . Thus he broke his mind : Lovely maid , be kind , For it is so that none can us see : Let me but thee enjoy , so do not be coy ; And back again I'll bring thee over sea . With a disdainful look these words she spoke , Cruel creature , do you think that I Am thus frighted to be , because upon the sea , I plainly show your lust I do defy . I trust the powers above that I my dearest love May once again behold his charming face . But if the fates decree that it must never be , I can never by a traitor be embrac'd . When the merchant see she would not agree , Then to satisfy his wicked mind , He us'd her cruelly , for confin'd was she , Thinking that way to make her kind . But that would not do , tho' hardships she went thro' , Her prayers to Heaven she sent night and day , She might rescu'd be from his treachery , Good people , now observe her here , we pray . PART IV. THE ship , we hear , by distress of weather were Drove upon a rock , and split in twain ; And all perish'd there except this lady fair , And a sailor who plowed on the main . On a plank of wood they plowed on the flood , These poor souls did swim , as we hear ; Being toss'd mountains high , in this extremity , The plank was drove to land strait with them there . Being come to shore they prais'd the Lord , But , poor souls ! knew not what to do for food . No living man was there , only the island bore , And piercing with cold , alas ! they stood . Three nights and days these poor souls lay , With their frozen limbs upon the ground . The lady she did cry , for hunger I die , Unless some nourishment for me is found . The sailor said , Charming dearest maid , If my flesh your hunger would suffice , Pray take and eat your fill ; I love a woman still . But once more to Heaven send your cries . As they were at prayer a ship did appear , Just discernible unto the eye : They went to the seaside , the sailor he espy'd , And both aloud to them they cry'd . The boat put out with speed , and took them indeed , Strait before the captain they were brought . The lady did declare whose daughter she were . And how her sisters had her ruin sought . Great care was taken there of this lady fair , And the poor distressed sailor too . We'll leave them on the main , and return again , To see how things with her father did go . When first she missing were her father I declare , And her lover likewise made great moan , Lest she should murder'd be , also her sisters three Said , Alas ! alas ! where is she gone . They not mistrusted were by her father dear , But her lover he began to think That by their treachery she must murder'd be , When the letter they unto him sent . Then the old lord call'd his daughters three , As soon as they into his presence came They trembled every limb , and concerned seem'd . Then he strait did say unto them , Where's your sister , you've kill'd her , I fear , And her trembling ghost last night I see . Then hearing him say so , their eyes [ ? ] And then unfolded all the treachery . Which when her love did hear he tor [ e his h ] air , And said , Oh that charming beauteous maid , Direct me , Gods ! he cry'd , over the ocean wide , Oh! cruel creatures , that my love betray'd . Oh! guard her night and day , Heaven , I do pray : Keep her safe 'till I see her face . I'll wander for her sake , no comfort can I take . O Gods above ! direct me to the place . Her father tore his hair , solemnly did swear , That they unto prison should be sent ; Their tears did not prevail , they were sent to jail , While day and night at home he did lament . Her lover , as we hear , making ready were , In order to cross the raging seas , But strait a letter came to prevent the same . Poor hearts ! that did their anxious spirits ease . My honour'd father dear , thy aged spirits cheer , In a short time I hope to see your face : The Heavens do me keep , tho' I am on the deep , My God he still protects , and keep me safe . Tell my dearest dear I've suffer'd severe , But yet my love and constancy remain ; A true heart he'll find both constant and kind , And I hope that he will be the same . Her father wept we hear , so did her lover dear , To hear what she had suffer'd on the main . So leave them to mourn until her return . And then of this lady speak again . The ship , we hear , in which the lady were , Was homeward bound , as we understand ; And in a little time fortune was so kind , That they did safe arrive into England . Soon as they landed were this sweet lady fair To this poor distressed sailor said , Come and go with me , my father to see , I hope you for your kindness will be paid . Strait to the door she came , and knocked at the same , Her father was the first that saw her face ; Not a word could speak , her heart was like to break , While tears between them both bedew'd the place . Soon as her lover dear of the same did hear , Like light'ning from the sky to her he flew : My dearest dear , he said , art thou yet alive , Now our joys again we will renew . Soon after this , we hear , to her only dear , In a sumptuous manner married she were . Full twenty thousand pound her father paid down , And afterwards six hundred a year . Ten days this wedding held , their joy was fill'd , For her cruel sisters they did send . And told what she had gone thro' , and the sailor too , Her father said , He shall your portion spend . Straightway before them all he did the sailor call , Six thousand pounds he straightway gave him there , Then turn'd them out of door , saying , come here no more , Now of your sister's fate you must share . Now this couple's blessed , and do live at rest , Maidens , now be constant like to she ; Trust but to God on high in your extremity , There is no doubt but you will succour'd be . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard . e same . Poor hearts ! that did their anxious spirits ease . My honour'd father dear , thy aged spirits cheer , In a short time I hope to see your face : The Heavens do me keep , tho' I am on the deep , My God he still protects , and keep me safe . Tell my dearest dear I've suffer'd severe , But yet my love and constancy remain ; A true heart he'll find both constant and kind , And I hope that he will be the same . Her father wept we hear , so did her lover dear , To hear what she had suffer'd on the main . So leave them to mourn until her return . And then of this lady speak again . The ship , we hear , in which the lady were , Was homeward bound , as we understand ; And in a little time fortune was so kind , That they did safe arrive into England . Soon as they landed were this sweet lady fair To this poor distressed sailor said , Come and go with me , my father to see , I hope you for your kindness will be paid . Strait to the door she came , and knocked at the same , Her father was the first that saw her face ; Not a word could speak , her heart was like to break , While tears between them both bedew'd the place . Soon as her lover dear of the same did hear , Like light'ning from the sky to her he flew : My dearest dear , he said , art thou yet alive , Now our joys again we will renew . Soon after this , we hear , to her only dear , In a sumptuous manner married she were . Full twenty thousand pound her father paid down , And afterwards six hundred a year . Ten days this wedding held , their joy was fill'd , For her cruel sisters they did send . And told what she had gone thro' , and the sailor too , Her father said , He shall your portion spend . Straightway before them all he did the sailor call , Six thousand pounds he straightway gave him there , Then turn'd them out of door , saying , come here no more , Now of your sister's fate you must share . Now this couple's blessed , and do live at rest , Maidens , now be constant like to she ; Trust but to God on high in your extremity , There is no doubt but you will succour'd be . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard . 