The Last Words of James Mackpherson Murderer . I Spent my time in rioting , debauch'd my health and strength , I pillag'd , plundered , murdered , but now alas ! at length , I'm brought to punishment condign ; pale Death draws near to me , The end I ever did project to hang upon a Tree . To hang upon a Tree a Tree that curs'd unhappy Death ; Like to a Wolf to worried be and Chocked in the Breath ; It makes my very heart to break when this I think upon , Did not my Courage singular bid pensive thoughts begone . No man on Earth that draws Breath more Courage had than I I dar'd my Foes into their Face . knew not what 't was to Fly ; A Grandeur stout I did keep out , like Hector manfully , Then wonder all that such a spark should hang upon a Tree . The Egyptian Band I did Command with greater sway by far , Then ever did a General his Soldiers in the War ; Being fear'd be all and spar'd be all , I liv'd most joyfully But ay pox take this fate of mine , must hang upon a Tree . No Grief at all I would take up , if Justice would take place , And bring my Fellow plunderers unto the same Disgrace . For Peter Brown that nottour lown escap'd and was made free , But ay pox take this Fate of mine , must hang upon a Tree . Ah! Laws and Justice buried are , Force , Fraud and Guile succeed , The Guilty pass unpunished . if Money intercede : The Laird of Grant that highland Saint that mighty Majesty , Did plead the Cause for Peter Brown and let Mackpherson die , The Destinies my Death contriv'd Men whom I did oblige Rewarded me much ill for good , and left me no Refuge ; For Brake a Duff in rage enough at length laid Hands on me , The which if Death do not Prevent revenged I shall be . As for pale Death I do not care , more courage never had none , But yet Hells Torments I do not fear , when once my life is gone : Therefore good people all take head , this warning take by me , According to the Life you led , rewarded you shall be As for my Death I'll not lament ; such things I do abhor To part with life I'm well content , as any heretofore ; Therefore my Council to you all is to Repent and Turn , lest afterwards it may befall you in Hells fire do burn , For neither Death nor Devils pow'rs this rage of mine shall break , For in the place to which I go some Office I expect , I'll Muster all the pow'rs of Hell , I'll cross the Stygian lake , Upon the Heads of those my Foes , sad Vengeance I shall take , Then be content and not relent my silly Soul , until The time may come wherein thou mayest perform thy Letter will . In hope's whereof I poured forth this with a dying Breath , As joyfully as man could do who hath in sighed his Death ; Then wantonly and Rantingly I am Resolv'd to die , And with undaunted Courage I shall mount this fatal Ttee . FINIS The Last Words of James Mackpherson Murderer . I Spent my time in rioting , debauch'd my health and strength , I pillag'd , plundered , murdered , but now alas ! at length , I'm brought to punishment condign ; pale Death draws near to me , The end I ever did project to hang upon a Tree . To hang upon a Tree a Tree that curs'd unhappy Death ; Like to a Wolf to worried be and Chocked in the Breath ; It makes my very heart to break when this I think upon , Did not my Courage singular bid pensive thoughts begone . No man on Earth that draws Breath more Courage had than I I dar'd my Foes into their Face . knew not what 't was to Fly ; A Grandeur stout I did keep out , like Hector manfully , Then wonder all that such a spark should hang upon a Tree . The Egyptian Band I did Command with greater sway by far , Then ever did a General his Soldiers in the War ; Being fear'd be all and spar'd be all , I liv'd most joyfully But ay pox take this fate of mine , must hang upon a Tree . No Grief at all I would take up , if Justice would take place , And bring my Fellow plunderers unto the same Disgrace . For Peter Brown that nottour lown escap'd and was made free , But ay pox take this Fate of mine , must hang upon a Tree . Ah! Laws and Justice buried are , Force , Fraud and Guile succeed , The Guilty pass unpunished . if Money intercede : The Laird of Grant that highland Saint that mighty Majesty , Did plead the Cause for Peter Brown and let Mackpherson die , The Destinies my Death contriv'd Men whom I did oblige Rewarded me much ill for good , and left me no Refuge ; For Brake a Duff in rage enough at length laid Hands on me , The which if Death do not Prevent revenged I shall be . As for pale Death I do not care , more courage never had none , But yet Hells Torments I do not fear , when once my life is gone : Therefore good people all take head , this warning take by me , According to the Life you led , rewarded you shall be As for my Death I'll not lament ; such things I do abhor To part with life I'm well content , as any heretofore ; Therefore my Council to you all is to Repent and Turn , lest afterwards it may befall you in Hells fire do burn , For neither Death nor Devils pow'rs this rage of mine shall break , For in the place to which I go some Office I expect , I'll Muster all the pow'rs of Hell , I'll cross the Stygian lake , Upon the Heads of those my Foes , sad Vengeance I shall take , Then be content and not relent my silly Soul , until The time may come wherein thou mayest perform thy Letter will . In hope's whereof I poured forth this with a dying Breath , As joyfully as man could do who hath in sighed his Death ; Then wantonly and Rantingly I am Resolv'd to die , And with undaunted Courage I shall mount this fatal Ttee . FINIS 