A True Narrative of the Horrid Hellish Popish-Plot . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND , The First Part. The Contents of the FIRST PART . How Sir Godfrey is Kill'd , his Body they hide , Which brought out in Chair , a Horseback do's ride : How Jesuits disguis'd , our Houses do Fire ; How subtly they Plot , and King's Death Conspire ; Of diverse Great Lords drawn in , to their Bane ; And Army of Irish , and Pilgrim's from Spain . I . GOod People I pray you give ear unto me , A Story so strange you have never been told , How the Jesuit , Devil , and POPE did agree , Our STATE to destroy , and Religion so old . To murder our KING , A most Horrible Thing ! But first of Sir Godfrey his Death I must sing ; For how e're they disguise it , we clearly can see , Who Murder'd that Knight no good Christian could be . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . II AT Somersethouse there is plain to be seen , A Gate which will led you into the Back-Court , This ( 1 ) Place for the Murder most fitting did seem , For thither much People does freely resor His Body they toss'd , From Pillar to Post , And shifted ( 2 ) so often , 't had like t' have been lost ; To watch with ( 3 ) Dark Lantern the Jesuits did go , But never mistrusted our Honest ( 4 ) Bedloe . The Truth of my Story , etc III . lest such close Contrivements at length might take Air , When as his dead Body corrupted did grow , They carried him out in ( 5 ) Invisible Chair , And set him a ( 6 ) Horseback to ride at So-Hoe . His own ( 7 ) Sword to the Hilt , To add to their Gilded , They thrust through his Body , but no Blood was ( 8 ) spilled ; T' have it thought he was kill'd by a Thief , they did mean , So they left ( 9 ) all his Money , and made his ( 10 ) Shoes clean . The truth of my Story , etc IV. TO show now th' excess of Jesuitical Rage , They this Loyal City to ruin would bring , 'Cause you Citizens are so Religious and sage , And ever much noted for true to your King ; T' your Houses they go , With ( 11 ) Fire and with Tow , Then ( 12 ) pilfer your Goods , and 'tis well you escape so ; Y' have seen how they once set the Town ( 13 ) all in flame ; And diverse times since have attempted the same . The truth of my Story , etc V. BY ( 14 ) Bedlo's Narration is shown you most clear , How Jesuits disguis'd into Houses will creep ; In a Porter or Carman's ( 15 ) Frock they'l appear ; Nay they will not disdain to cry Chimney-sweep ; Or fell you Small-Cole , Then drop in some hold A Fire Ball , or thrust it up by a long Pole ; But I now must relate a more Tragical thing , How these Villains conspir'd to murder our King , The truth of my Story , etc VI . AT the ( 16 ) White-horse in April there was a Consult , Where Jesuits a ( 17 ) Covenant wickedly frame ; The ( 18 ) Death of our Sovereign was the Result , To th' which at least ( 19 ) Forty all signed their name , They wou'd not do that , I' th' place where they sat , Trusty Oats must ( 21 ) convey it , from this man to that ; To make sure work , by ( 21 ) Poison the Deed must be done And Stab'd with a ( 22 ) Dagger , and ( 23 ) Shot with a Gun. The truth of my Story , etc VII . FOr fear at St. Omers , their Oats might be miss'd , Th' agreed with a Devil t' appear in his place . In a Body of Air , believe't if you list , Which squeek'd just like Oats , and mov'd with the same grace ; 'T cou'd Lie , it cou'd Cant , Turn eyes like a Saint , And of our great Doctor no feature did want . Thus Forty might Swear they ( 24 ) saw Oats ev'ry day , But true Oats was here , and the Devil saw they . The truth of my Story , etc VIII . FRom Father Oliva ( 26 ) Commissions did come , To raise a great Army much Treasure is spent ; Th' Old Man was resolved to take Post from Rome , To ride at the Head of them was his intent ; Lord ( 27 ) Bellas' was fit , Who can deny it , To Command in his place , When's Gout wou'd permit ; Lord ( 28 ) Stafford was fittest to trust with their Pay , Old ( 29 ) Ratcliff to range them in Battle Array . The Truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out , IX . TH' High-Treasurer's place the Lord ( 30 ) Powis did please , Men of desp'rate Fortune oft venture too far ; Lord ( 31 ) Peters wou'd hazard Estate , and his Ease , And Life for the Pope too , in this Holy War ; Lord Ar'ndel of Old , So Warlike and bold , Made choice of a ( 32 ) Chancellor's Gown we are told . All these did Conspire with the Lord Castlemaine , Whose Plot was to catch his old Duchess again . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . X. GReat store of wild ( 33 ) Irish both civil and wise , Designed to join with the ( 34 ) Pilgrim's of Spain , Thirty ( 35 ) Thousand being ready there all in good guise , Had vow'd a long Pilgrimage over the Main . To arm well this Host , When 'tWhen't came on our Cost , ( 36 ) Black Bills forty thousand , are sent by the Post , This ( 37 ) Army lay privately on the Sea Shore ; And no man e're herd of them since nor before . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . My Witnesses I bring , and produce the Record , D' you think th' are Perjur'd ? 'Tis false and absur'd , Wou'd th' Godly hang Papists for Interest or Pique ? Wou'd a Doctor Swear false for Ten Pound a Week ? Authors Quoted . ( 1 ) Hills Trial , page . 16. ( 2 ) viz. 4 Times , p. 18. 16. ( 3 ) See the same Try . p. 18. ( 4 ) The same , page . 31. ( 5 ) The same , page . 69. ( 6 ) The same Trial , p. 20 ( 7 ) The same , page . 35. ( 8 ) Ibid. ( 9 ) Ibid. ( 10 ) See the Coroners Inquest . ( 11 ) See Dt. Oates's Narrative page 22. ( 12 ) Ibid. ( 13 ) See the Pillar near Lon - dONE Bridge . ( 14 ) Read Bedloes Narrative . ( 15 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 68. ( 16 ) See Ireland's Trial , page 19. ( 17 ) Ibid. ( 18 ) Ibid. ( 19 ) The same Trial , page . 26 ( 20 ) The same , page 20. ( 21 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 21. ( 22 ) The same , Narrat . p. 47. ( 23 ) See Pickerings Trial , page 23. ( 24 ) See St. Omers Certificate ( 25 ) See Jesuits Trial , p. 47 , ( 26 ) See Dr. Oates's Narra - tive , p. 58. ( 27 ) Ibid. ( 28 ) Ibid. ( 29 ) Ibid. ( 30 ) Ibid. ( 31 ) Ibid. ( 32 ) Ibid ( 33 ) See Lords , Journal and Langhorns Trial , page 20. ( 34 ) Ibid ( 35 ) See Lords Journal , p. 54. ( 36 ) See Colemans Trial , p. 23. ( 37 ) See Lords Journal and Langhorns Trial , as above . Some Notes on the Picture to prevent Popish Cavils . A. Read Greens Trial , page 16 and 17. B. This is the famous Spright with the Chamber-pot , which did as cer - tainly appear to the Popish Ladies , when they danc'd about the Body , as 'tis certain , it did afterwards appear to some True Protestant Ladies in the same place . C. Hem , was the watchword to Berry to open the Gate . See his Trial , page 19. D. and E. We may well suppose , the Devil help'd them when they pass'd invisible so close by the Centry : and we may be more assured , they could not without some Diabolical Art make him ( after so many days being dead ) bend his Legs to fit in the Chair , and then to stretch them out stiff again , as he was found on Prim - rose-Hill . F. The Jesuits most ingenious Game of Trap , which to understand you must read Bedloes Narrative of the Fires , p. 16. and 17. Read it throughou 'Twill show you plainly , how the Papists burned London ; or if you desire to be confirm'd in so niece - ssary a belief by and undeniable Autho - rity , read the new Inscription on the Monument , and that on the house in Pudding-Lane , which were purposely design'd to convince all the World of this Truth , and safely to convey it to Posterity . G. See Langhorns Memoirs , and L. C.J. Answer to Bedloes Articles . H. The Dr. does not tell us , where these forty thousand Bills were made ; but our reason tells us , that 'twas ve - ry necessary they should be ham - read as privately as possible ( for fear of Discovery ) and therefore Bilboe and Salamanca , may pass far more probable than London or any Town in England . FINIS . A True Narrative of the Horrid Hellish Popish-Plot . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND , The First Part. The Contents of the FIRST PART . How Sir Godfrey is Kill'd , his Body they hide , Which brought out in Chair , a Horseback do's ride : How Jesuits disguis'd , our Houses do Fire ; How subtly they Plot , and King's Death Conspire ; Of diverse Great Lords drawn in , to their Bane ; And Army of Irish , and Pilgrim's from Spain . I . GOod People I pray you give ear unto me , A Story so strange you have never been told , How the Jesuit , Devil , and POPE did agree , Our STATE to destroy , and Religion so old . To murder our KING , A most Horrible Thing ! But first of Sir Godfrey his Death I must sing ; For how e're they disguise it , we clearly can see , Who Murder'd that Knight no good Christian could be . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . II AT Somersethouse there is plain to be seen , A Gate which will led you into the Back-Court , This ( 1 ) Place for the Murder most fitting did seem , For thither much People does freely resor His Body they toss'd , From Pillar to Post , And shifted ( 2 ) so often , 't had like t' have been lost ; To watch with ( 3 ) Dark Lantern the Jesuits did go , But never mistrusted our Honest ( 4 ) Bedloe . The Truth of my Story , etc III . lest such close Contrivements at length might take Air , When as his dead Body corrupted did grow , They carried him out in ( 5 ) Invisible Chair , And set him a ( 6 ) Horseback to ride at So-Hoe . His own ( 7 ) Sword to the Hilt , To add to their Gilded , They thrust through his Body , but no Blood was ( 8 ) spilled ; T' have it thought he was kill'd by a Thief , they did mean , So they left ( 9 ) all his Money , and made his ( 10 ) Shoes clean . The truth of my Story , etc IV. TO show now th' excess of Jesuitical Rage , They this Loyal City to ruin would bring , 'Cause you Citizens are so Religious and sage , And ever much noted for true to your King ; T' your Houses they go , With ( 11 ) Fire and with Tow , Then ( 12 ) pilfer your Goods , and 'tis well you escape so ; Y' have seen how they once set the Town ( 13 ) all in flame ; And diverse times since have attempted the same . The truth of my Story , etc V. BY ( 14 ) Bedlo's Narration is shown you most clear , How Jesuits disguis'd into Houses will creep ; In a Porter or Carman's ( 15 ) Frock they'l appear ; Nay they will not disdain to cry Chimney-sweep ; Or fell you Small-Cole , Then drop in some hold A Fire Ball , or thrust it up by a long Pole ; But I now must relate a more Tragical thing , How these Villains conspir'd to murder our King , The truth of my Story , etc VI . AT the ( 16 ) White-horse in April there was a Consult , Where Jesuits a ( 17 ) Covenant wickedly frame ; The ( 18 ) Death of our Sovereign was the Result , To th' which at least ( 19 ) Forty all signed their name , They wou'd not do that , I' th' place where they sat , Trusty Oats must ( 21 ) convey it , from this man to that ; To make sure work , by ( 21 ) Poison the Deed must be done And Stab'd with a ( 22 ) Dagger , and ( 23 ) Shot with a Gun. The truth of my Story , etc VII . FOr fear at St. Omers , their Oats might be miss'd , Th' agreed with a Devil t' appear in his place . In a Body of Air , believe't if you list , Which squeek'd just like Oats , and mov'd with the same grace ; 'T cou'd Lie , it cou'd Cant , Turn eyes like a Saint , And of our great Doctor no feature did want . Thus Forty might Swear they ( 24 ) saw Oats ev'ry day , But true Oats was here , and the Devil saw they . The truth of my Story , etc VIII . FRom Father Oliva ( 26 ) Commissions did come , To raise a great Army much Treasure is spent ; Th' Old Man was resolved to take Post from Rome , To ride at the Head of them was his intent ; Lord ( 27 ) Bellas' was fit , Who can deny it , To Command in his place , When's Gout wou'd permit ; Lord ( 28 ) Stafford was fittest to trust with their Pay , Old ( 29 ) Ratcliff to range them in Battle Array . The Truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out , IX . TH' High-Treasurer's place the Lord ( 30 ) Powis did please , Men of desp'rate Fortune oft venture too far ; Lord ( 31 ) Peters wou'd hazard Estate , and his Ease , And Life for the Pope too , in this Holy War ; Lord Ar'ndel of Old , So Warlike and bold , Made choice of a ( 32 ) Chancellor's Gown we are told . All these did Conspire with the Lord Castlemaine , Whose Plot was to catch his old Duchess again . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . X. GReat store of wild ( 33 ) Irish both civil and wise , Designed to join with the ( 34 ) Pilgrim's of Spain , Thirty ( 35 ) Thousand being ready there all in good guise , Had vow'd a long Pilgrimage over the Main . To arm well this Host , When 'tWhen't came on our Cost , ( 36 ) Black Bills forty thousand , are sent by the Post , This ( 37 ) Army lay privately on the Sea Shore ; And no man e're herd of them since nor before . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . My Witnesses I bring , and produce the Record , D' you think th' are Perjur'd ? 'Tis false and absur'd , Wou'd th' Godly hang Papists for Interest or Pique ? Wou'd a Doctor Swear false for Ten Pound a Week ? Authors Quoted . ( 1 ) Hills Trial , page . 16. ( 2 ) viz. 4 Times , p. 18. 16. ( 3 ) See the same Try . p. 18. ( 4 ) The same , page . 31. ( 5 ) The same , page . 69. ( 6 ) The same Trial , p. 20 ( 7 ) The same , page . 35. ( 8 ) Ibid. ( 9 ) Ibid. ( 10 ) See the Coroners Inquest . ( 11 ) See Dt. Oates's Narrative page 22. ( 12 ) Ibid. ( 13 ) See the Pillar near Lon - dONE Bridge . ( 14 ) Read Bedloes Narrative . ( 15 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 68. ( 16 ) See Ireland's Trial , page 19. ( 17 ) Ibid. ( 18 ) Ibid. ( 19 ) The same Trial , page . 26 ( 20 ) The same , page 20. ( 21 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 21. ( 22 ) The same , Narrat . p. 47. ( 23 ) See Pickerings Trial , page 23. ( 24 ) See St. Omers Certificate ( 25 ) See Jesuits Trial , p. 47 , ( 26 ) See Dr. Oates's Narra - tive , p. 58. ( 27 ) Ibid. ( 28 ) Ibid. ( 29 ) Ibid. ( 30 ) Ibid. ( 31 ) Ibid. ( 32 ) Ibid ( 33 ) See Lords , Journal and Langhorns Trial , page 20. ( 34 ) Ibid ( 35 ) See Lords Journal , p. 54. ( 36 ) See Colemans Trial , p. 23. ( 37 ) See Lords Journal and Langhorns Trial , as above . Some Notes on the Picture to prevent Popish Cavils . A. Read Greens Trial , page 16 and 17. B. This is the famous Spright with the Chamber-pot , which did as cer - tainly appear to the Popish Ladies , when they danc'd about the Body , as 'tis certain , it did afterwards appear to some True Protestant Ladies in the same place . C. Hem , was the watchword to Berry to open the Gate . See his Trial , page 19. D. and E. We may well suppose , the Devil help'd them when they pass'd invisible so close by the Centry : and we may be more assured , they could not without some Diabolical Art make him ( after so many days being dead ) bend his Legs to fit in the Chair , and then to stretch them out stiff again , as he was found on Prim - rose-Hill . F. The Jesuits most ingenious Game of Trap , which to understand you must read Bedloes Narrative of the Fires , p. 16. and 17. Read it throughou 'Twill show you plainly , how the Papists burned London ; or if you desire to be confirm'd in so niece - ssary a belief by and undeniable Autho - rity , read the new Inscription on the Monument , and that on the house in Pudding-Lane , which were purposely design'd to convince all the World of this Truth , and safely to convey it to Posterity . G. See Langhorns Memoirs , and L. C.J. Answer to Bedloes Articles . H. The Dr. does not tell us , where these forty thousand Bills were made ; but our reason tells us , that 'twas ve - ry necessary they should be ham - read as privately as possible ( for fear of Discovery ) and therefore Bilboe and Salamanca , may pass far more probable than London or any Town in England . FINIS . A True Narrative of the Horrid Hellish Popish-Plot . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND , The First Part. The Contents of the FIRST PART . How Sir Godfrey is Kill'd , his Body they hide , Which brought out in Chair , a Horseback do's ride : How Jesuits disguis'd , our Houses do Fire ; How subtly they Plot , and King's Death Conspire ; Of diverse Great Lords drawn in , to their Bane ; And Army of Irish , and Pilgrim's from Spain . I . GOod People I pray you give ear unto me , A Story so strange you have never been told , How the Jesuit , Devil , and POPE did agree , Our STATE to destroy , and Religion so old . To murder our KING , A most Horrible Thing ! But first of Sir Godfrey his Death I must sing ; For how e're they disguise it , we clearly can see , Who Murder'd that Knight no good Christian could be . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . II AT Somersethouse there is plain to be seen , A Gate which will led you into the Back-Court , This ( 1 ) Place for the Murder most fitting did seem , For thither much People does freely resor His Body they toss'd , From Pillar to Post , And shifted ( 2 ) so often , 't had like t' have been lost ; To watch with ( 3 ) Dark Lantern the Jesuits did go , But never mistrusted our Honest ( 4 ) Bedloe . The Truth of my Story , etc III . lest such close Contrivements at length might take Air , When as his dead Body corrupted did grow , They carried him out in ( 5 ) Invisible Chair , And set him a ( 6 ) Horseback to ride at So-Hoe . His own ( 7 ) Sword to the Hilt , To add to their Gilded , They thrust through his Body , but no Blood was ( 8 ) spilled ; T' have it thought he was kill'd by a Thief , they did mean , So they left ( 9 ) all his Money , and made his ( 10 ) Shoes clean . The truth of my Story , etc IV. TO show now th' excess of Jesuitical Rage , They this Loyal City to ruin would bring , 'Cause you Citizens are so Religious and sage , And ever much noted for true to your King ; T' your Houses they go , With ( 11 ) Fire and with Tow , Then ( 12 ) pilfer your Goods , and 'tis well you escape so ; Y' have seen how they once set the Town ( 13 ) all in flame ; And diverse times since have attempted the same . The truth of my Story , etc V. BY ( 14 ) Bedlo's Narration is shown you most clear , How Jesuits disguis'd into Houses will creep ; In a Porter or Carman's ( 15 ) Frock they'l appear ; Nay they will not disdain to cry Chimney-sweep ; Or fell you Small-Cole , Then drop in some hold A Fire Ball , or thrust it up by a long Pole ; But I now must relate a more Tragical thing , How these Villains conspir'd to murder our King , The truth of my Story , etc VI . AT the ( 16 ) White-horse in April there was a Consult , Where Jesuits a ( 17 ) Covenant wickedly frame ; The ( 18 ) Death of our Sovereign was the Result , To th' which at least ( 19 ) Forty all signed their name , They wou'd not do that , I' th' place where they sat , Trusty Oats must ( 21 ) convey it , from this man to that ; To make sure work , by ( 21 ) Poison the Deed must be done And Stab'd with a ( 22 ) Dagger , and ( 23 ) Shot with a Gun. The truth of my Story , etc VII . FOr fear at St. Omers , their Oats might be miss'd , Th' agreed with a Devil t' appear in his place . In a Body of Air , believe't if you list , Which squeek'd just like Oats , and mov'd with the same grace ; 'T cou'd Lie , it cou'd Cant , Turn eyes like a Saint , And of our great Doctor no feature did want . Thus Forty might Swear they ( 24 ) saw Oats ev'ry day , But true Oats was here , and the Devil saw they . The truth of my Story , etc VIII . FRom Father Oliva ( 26 ) Commissions did come , To raise a great Army much Treasure is spent ; Th' Old Man was resolved to take Post from Rome , To ride at the Head of them was his intent ; Lord ( 27 ) Bellas' was fit , Who can deny it , To Command in his place , When's Gout wou'd permit ; Lord ( 28 ) Stafford was fittest to trust with their Pay , Old ( 29 ) Ratcliff to range them in Battle Array . The Truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out , IX . TH' High-Treasurer's place the Lord ( 30 ) Powis did please , Men of desp'rate Fortune oft venture too far ; Lord ( 31 ) Peters wou'd hazard Estate , and his Ease , And Life for the Pope too , in this Holy War ; Lord Ar'ndel of Old , So Warlike and bold , Made choice of a ( 32 ) Chancellor's Gown we are told . All these did Conspire with the Lord Castlemaine , Whose Plot was to catch his old Duchess again . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . X. GReat store of wild ( 33 ) Irish both civil and wise , Designed to join with the ( 34 ) Pilgrim's of Spain , Thirty ( 35 ) Thousand being ready there all in good guise , Had vow'd a long Pilgrimage over the Main . To arm well this Host , When 'tWhen't came on our Cost , ( 36 ) Black Bills forty thousand , are sent by the Post , This ( 37 ) Army lay privately on the Sea Shore ; And no man e're herd of them since nor before . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . My Witnesses I bring , and produce the Record , D' you think th' are Perjur'd ? 'Tis false and absur'd , Wou'd th' Godly hang Papists for Interest or Pique ? Wou'd a Doctor Swear false for Ten Pound a Week ? Authors Quoted . ( 1 ) Hills Trial , page . 16. ( 2 ) viz. 4 Times , p. 18. 16. ( 3 ) See the same Try . p. 18. ( 4 ) The same , page . 31. ( 5 ) The same , page . 69. ( 6 ) The same Trial , p. 20 ( 7 ) The same , page . 35. ( 8 ) Ibid. ( 9 ) Ibid. ( 10 ) See the Coroners Inquest . ( 11 ) See Dt. Oates's Narrative page 22. ( 12 ) Ibid. ( 13 ) See the Pillar near Lon - dONE Bridge . ( 14 ) Read Bedloes Narrative . ( 15 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 68. ( 16 ) See Ireland's Trial , page 19. ( 17 ) Ibid. ( 18 ) Ibid. ( 19 ) The same Trial , page . 26 ( 20 ) The same , page 20. ( 21 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 21. ( 22 ) The same , Narrat . p. 47. ( 23 ) See Pickerings Trial , page 23. ( 24 ) See St. Omers Certificate ( 25 ) See Jesuits Trial , p. 47 , ( 26 ) See Dr. Oates's Narra - tive , p. 58. ( 27 ) Ibid. ( 28 ) Ibid. ( 29 ) Ibid. ( 30 ) Ibid. ( 31 ) Ibid. ( 32 ) Ibid ( 33 ) See Lords , Journal and Langhorns Trial , page 20. ( 34 ) Ibid ( 35 ) See Lords Journal , p. 54. ( 36 ) See Colemans Trial , p. 23. ( 37 ) See Lords Journal and Langhorns Trial , as above . Some Notes on the Picture to prevent Popish Cavils . A. Read Greens Trial , page 16 and 17. B. This is the famous Spright with the Chamber-pot , which did as cer - tainly appear to the Popish Ladies , when they danc'd about the Body , as 'tis certain , it did afterwards appear to some True Protestant Ladies in the same place . C. Hem , was the watchword to Berry to open the Gate . See his Trial , page 19. D. and E. We may well suppose , the Devil help'd them when they pass'd invisible so close by the Centry : and we may be more assured , they could not without some Diabolical Art make him ( after so many days being dead ) bend his Legs to fit in the Chair , and then to stretch them out stiff again , as he was found on Prim - rose-Hill . F. The Jesuits most ingenious Game of Trap , which to understand you must read Bedloes Narrative of the Fires , p. 16. and 17. Read it throughou 'Twill show you plainly , how the Papists burned London ; or if you desire to be confirm'd in so niece - ssary a belief by and undeniable Autho - rity , read the new Inscription on the Monument , and that on the house in Pudding-Lane , which were purposely design'd to convince all the World of this Truth , and safely to convey it to Posterity . G. See Langhorns Memoirs , and L. C.J. Answer to Bedloes Articles . H. The Dr. does not tell us , where these forty thousand Bills were made ; but our reason tells us , that 'twas ve - ry necessary they should be ham - read as privately as possible ( for fear of Discovery ) and therefore Bilboe and Salamanca , may pass far more probable than London or any Town in England . FINIS . A True Narrative of the Horrid Hellish Popish-Plot . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND , The First Part. The Contents of the FIRST PART . How Sir Godfrey is Kill'd , his Body they hide , Which brought out in Chair , a Horseback do's ride : How Jesuits disguis'd , our Houses do Fire ; How subtly they Plot , and King's Death Conspire ; Of diverse Great Lords drawn in , to their Bane ; And Army of Irish , and Pilgrim's from Spain . I . GOod People I pray you give ear unto me , A Story so strange you have never been told , How the Jesuit , Devil , and POPE did agree , Our STATE to destroy , and Religion so old . To murder our KING , A most Horrible Thing ! But first of Sir Godfrey his Death I must sing ; For how e're they disguise it , we clearly can see , Who Murder'd that Knight no good Christian could be . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . II AT Somersethouse there is plain to be seen , A Gate which will led you into the Back-Court , This ( 1 ) Place for the Murder most fitting did seem , For thither much People does freely resor His Body they toss'd , From Pillar to Post , And shifted ( 2 ) so often , 't had like t' have been lost ; To watch with ( 3 ) Dark Lantern the Jesuits did go , But never mistrusted our Honest ( 4 ) Bedloe . The Truth of my Story , etc III . lest such close Contrivements at length might take Air , When as his dead Body corrupted did grow , They carried him out in ( 5 ) Invisible Chair , And set him a ( 6 ) Horseback to ride at So-Hoe . His own ( 7 ) Sword to the Hilt , To add to their Gilded , They thrust through his Body , but no Blood was ( 8 ) spilled ; T' have it thought he was kill'd by a Thief , they did mean , So they left ( 9 ) all his Money , and made his ( 10 ) Shoes clean . The truth of my Story , etc IV. TO show now th' excess of Jesuitical Rage , They this Loyal City to ruin would bring , 'Cause you Citizens are so Religious and sage , And ever much noted for true to your King ; T' your Houses they go , With ( 11 ) Fire and with Tow , Then ( 12 ) pilfer your Goods , and 'tis well you escape so ; Y' have seen how they once set the Town ( 13 ) all in flame ; And diverse times since have attempted the same . The truth of my Story , etc V. BY ( 14 ) Bedlo's Narration is shown you most clear , How Jesuits disguis'd into Houses will creep ; In a Porter or Carman's ( 15 ) Frock they'l appear ; Nay they will not disdain to cry Chimney-sweep ; Or fell you Small-Cole , Then drop in some hold A Fire Ball , or thrust it up by a long Pole ; But I now must relate a more Tragical thing , How these Villains conspir'd to murder our King , The truth of my Story , etc VI . AT the ( 16 ) White-horse in April there was a Consult , Where Jesuits a ( 17 ) Covenant wickedly frame ; The ( 18 ) Death of our Sovereign was the Result , To th' which at least ( 19 ) Forty all signed their name , They wou'd not do that , I' th' place where they sat , Trusty Oats must ( 21 ) convey it , from this man to that ; To make sure work , by ( 21 ) Poison the Deed must be done And Stab'd with a ( 22 ) Dagger , and ( 23 ) Shot with a Gun. The truth of my Story , etc VII . FOr fear at St. Omers , their Oats might be miss'd , Th' agreed with a Devil t' appear in his place . In a Body of Air , believe't if you list , Which squeek'd just like Oats , and mov'd with the same grace ; 'T cou'd Lie , it cou'd Cant , Turn eyes like a Saint , And of our great Doctor no feature did want . Thus Forty might Swear they ( 24 ) saw Oats ev'ry day , But true Oats was here , and the Devil saw they . The truth of my Story , etc VIII . FRom Father Oliva ( 26 ) Commissions did come , To raise a great Army much Treasure is spent ; Th' Old Man was resolved to take Post from Rome , To ride at the Head of them was his intent ; Lord ( 27 ) Bellas' was fit , Who can deny it , To Command in his place , When's Gout wou'd permit ; Lord ( 28 ) Stafford was fittest to trust with their Pay , Old ( 29 ) Ratcliff to range them in Battle Array . The Truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out , IX . TH' High-Treasurer's place the Lord ( 30 ) Powis did please , Men of desp'rate Fortune oft venture too far ; Lord ( 31 ) Peters wou'd hazard Estate , and his Ease , And Life for the Pope too , in this Holy War ; Lord Ar'ndel of Old , So Warlike and bold , Made choice of a ( 32 ) Chancellor's Gown we are told . All these did Conspire with the Lord Castlemaine , Whose Plot was to catch his old Duchess again . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . X. GReat store of wild ( 33 ) Irish both civil and wise , Designed to join with the ( 34 ) Pilgrim's of Spain , Thirty ( 35 ) Thousand being ready there all in good guise , Had vow'd a long Pilgrimage over the Main . To arm well this Host , When 'tWhen't came on our Cost , ( 36 ) Black Bills forty thousand , are sent by the Post , This ( 37 ) Army lay privately on the Sea Shore ; And no man e're herd of them since nor before . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . My Witnesses I bring , and produce the Record , D' you think th' are Perjur'd ? 'Tis false and absur'd , Wou'd th' Godly hang Papists for Interest or Pique ? Wou'd a Doctor Swear false for Ten Pound a Week ? Authors Quoted . ( 1 ) Hills Trial , page . 16. ( 2 ) viz. 4 Times , p. 18. 16. ( 3 ) See the same Try . p. 18. ( 4 ) The same , page . 31. ( 5 ) The same , page . 69. ( 6 ) The same Trial , p. 20 ( 7 ) The same , page . 35. ( 8 ) Ibid. ( 9 ) Ibid. ( 10 ) See the Coroners Inquest . ( 11 ) See Dt. Oates's Narrative page 22. ( 12 ) Ibid. ( 13 ) See the Pillar near Lon - dONE Bridge . ( 14 ) Read Bedloes Narrative . ( 15 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 68. ( 16 ) See Ireland's Trial , page 19. ( 17 ) Ibid. ( 18 ) Ibid. ( 19 ) The same Trial , page . 26 ( 20 ) The same , page 20. ( 21 ) See Dr. Oates's Narrat . page 21. ( 22 ) The same , Narrat . p. 47. ( 23 ) See Pickerings Trial , page 23. ( 24 ) See St. Omers Certificate ( 25 ) See Jesuits Trial , p. 47 , ( 26 ) See Dr. Oates's Narra - tive , p. 58. ( 27 ) Ibid. ( 28 ) Ibid. ( 29 ) Ibid. ( 30 ) Ibid. ( 31 ) Ibid. ( 32 ) Ibid ( 33 ) See Lords , Journal and Langhorns Trial , page 20. ( 34 ) Ibid ( 35 ) See Lords Journal , p. 54. ( 36 ) See Colemans Trial , p. 23. ( 37 ) See Lords Journal and Langhorns Trial , as above . Some Notes on the Picture to prevent Popish Cavils . A. Read Greens Trial , page 16 and 17. B. This is the famous Spright with the Chamber-pot , which did as cer - tainly appear to the Popish Ladies , when they danc'd about the Body , as 'tis certain , it did afterwards appear to some True Protestant Ladies in the same place . C. Hem , was the watchword to Berry to open the Gate . See his Trial , page 19. D. and E. We may well suppose , the Devil help'd them when they pass'd invisible so close by the Centry : and we may be more assured , they could not without some Diabolical Art make him ( after so many days being dead ) bend his Legs to fit in the Chair , and then to stretch them out stiff again , as he was found on Prim - rose-Hill . F. The Jesuits most ingenious Game of Trap , which to understand you must read Bedloes Narrative of the Fires , p. 16. and 17. Read it throughou 'Twill show you plainly , how the Papists burned London ; or if you desire to be confirm'd in so niece - ssary a belief by and undeniable Autho - rity , read the new Inscription on the Monument , and that on the house in Pudding-Lane , which were purposely design'd to convince all the World of this Truth , and safely to convey it to Posterity . G. See Langhorns Memoirs , and L. C.J. Answer to Bedloes Articles . H. The Dr. does not tell us , where these forty thousand Bills were made ; but our reason tells us , that 'twas ve - ry necessary they should be ham - read as privately as possible ( for fear of Discovery ) and therefore Bilboe and Salamanca , may pass far more probable than London or any Town in England . FINIS . 