The second Part to the same Tune . THe Citizens brave , Both Youngmen and Grave , each in his plush and golden chain With their Trophies and Banners , In such gallant manners , the like scarce will be seen here again . Also the train'd bans , With weapons in hands , & the Muzle o' their Muskets held down To show their Allegiance , And ready obedience , they had to their king and his Crown Lords and Knights many score , Both behind and before , all to bring in our noble King , With their glittering swords , Resounding such words , which did us all comfort bring . The name of a King , It was such a thing , not used in days , of late , For we had commonwealth , Rak'd together by stealth but now its turn'd reprobate . Farewell Commonwealth , Who gained all by stealth and ruins of other men , Let you go where you will , My prayers shall be still , that you never come hither again . Farewell the States Arms , With your Musical charms , how you came here , to me is a riddle ? By Treason this sure , With pretences demure , but now you may all go fiddle . For the Kings at White-hall , His brothers and all , where I hope th' Almighty'l protect them And punish such knaves , With halters and graves , that shall in the least retect them . All I say or sing , God bless our good King , and send him long for reign When all rogues are dispatched , And from this world snatched , then we shall live quietly again . London , Printed for John Andrews at the White-Lyon . The second Part to the same Tune . THe Citizens brave , Both Youngmen and Grave , each in his plush and golden chain With their Trophies and Banners , In such gallant manners , the like scarce will be seen here again . Also the train'd bans , With weapons in hands , & the Muzle o' their Muskets held down To show their Allegiance , And ready obedience , they had to their king and his Crown Lords and Knights many score , Both behind and before , all to bring in our noble King , With their glittering swords , Resounding such words , which did us all comfort bring . The name of a King , It was such a thing , not used in days , of late , For we had commonwealth , Rak'd together by stealth but now its turn'd reprobate . Farewell Commonwealth , Who gained all by stealth and ruins of other men , Let you go where you will , My prayers shall be still , that you never come hither again . Farewell the States Arms , With your Musical charms , how you came here , to me is a riddle ? By Treason this sure , With pretences demure , but now you may all go fiddle . For the Kings at White-hall , His brothers and all , where I hope th' Almighty'l protect them And punish such knaves , With halters and graves , that shall in the least retect them . All I say or sing , God bless our good King , and send him long for reign When all rogues are dispatched , And from this world snatched , then we shall live quietly again . London , Printed for John Andrews at the White-Lyon . 