The Quaker's Wanton Wife : OR , THE Frolicsome young Beauty of a Sanctified Brother be - longing to the Bull and Mouth . Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . A Citizen's Wife I am , I declare it , I solemnly swear it , I led a sweet life In pleasure each day ; For I live at my ease , And can walk where I please , to Playhouse I go ; And as for my Husband , And as for my Husband , He dare not say no . Five hundred Pounds , A Portion I brought him And faith I have taught him His duty , and found Him willing to please , Like a Servant I have , My admiring Slave , He is brought to my how ; If I'll have rich Jewels , If I'll have rich Jewels , He dare not say no . My doting old Man , Is lately turn'd Quaker , And I Cuckold-maker ; May he do what he can , My frolicks I'll have , Rich topins I'll wear , And powdered hair , Like a Lady I'll go ; My husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , he dare not say no . In London I dwell , Where I at my pleasure , Do revel in Treasure ; I know very well , What pleases me best ; If I want a rich Gown , Nay the best in the Town , To the Taylor's I go , My Husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , he dare not say no . I have been well bred , And therefore dear Neighbour , With no kind of labour I trouble my head , But take my delight ; I will still have the reins , Let my Husband take pains , While in pleasures I flow ; It is but his Duty , It is but his Duty , he dare not say no . Whenever I dine , Rich Tent with Canary , Nay Rhenish and Sherry , And all sorts of Wine I have at the board ; As I am a true Wife , Oh the Liquour of Life I love to see flow ; The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , he dare not say no . What if a brisk Blade Should happen to meet me , And proffer to treat me , Should I be afraid to venture with him ? By my truth , no not I , But will freely comply , To the Tavern I go ; The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , he dare not say no . It is not Yea and Nay Shall e'er overrule me , Or any ways fool me , I will have my way As sure as a Club ; Shall my beautiful Charms , In and old Quaker's Arms Be frozen ? faith no ; I will have my Humours , I will have my Humours , abroad I will go . Printed by W.O. for B. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The Quaker's Wanton Wife : OR , THE Frolicsome young Beauty of a Sanctified Brother be - longing to the Bull and Mouth . Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . A Citizen's Wife I am , I declare it , I solemnly swear it , I led a sweet life In pleasure each day ; For I live at my ease , And can walk where I please , to Playhouse I go ; And as for my Husband , And as for my Husband , He dare not say no . Five hundred Pounds , A Portion I brought him And faith I have taught him His duty , and found Him willing to please , Like a Servant I have , My admiring Slave , He is brought to my how ; If I'll have rich Jewels , If I'll have rich Jewels , He dare not say no . My doting old Man , Is lately turn'd Quaker , And I Cuckold-maker ; May he do what he can , My frolicks I'll have , Rich topins I'll wear , And powdered hair , Like a Lady I'll go ; My husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , he dare not say no . In London I dwell , Where I at my pleasure , Do revel in Treasure ; I know very well , What pleases me best ; If I want a rich Gown , Nay the best in the Town , To the Taylor's I go , My Husband the Quaker , My Husband the Quaker , he dare not say no . I have been well bred , And therefore dear Neighbour , With no kind of labour I trouble my head , But take my delight ; I will still have the reins , Let my Husband take pains , While in pleasures I flow ; It is but his Duty , It is but his Duty , he dare not say no . Whenever I dine , Rich Tent with Canary , Nay Rhenish and Sherry , And all sorts of Wine I have at the board ; As I am a true Wife , Oh the Liquour of Life I love to see flow ; The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , he dare not say no . What if a brisk Blade Should happen to meet me , And proffer to treat me , Should I be afraid to venture with him ? By my truth , no not I , But will freely comply , To the Tavern I go ; The Quaker my Husband , The Quaker my Husband , he dare not say no . It is not Yea and Nay Shall e'er overrule me , Or any ways fool me , I will have my way As sure as a Club ; Shall my beautiful Charms , In and old Quaker's Arms Be frozen ? faith no ; I will have my Humours , I will have my Humours , abroad I will go . Printed by W.O. for B. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 