JOANS Victory Over her Fellow-Servants . A Youngman that with many Maids does dwell , Thought Joan the rest in beauty did excel ; Mall was too coy , Jenny was too bold , Kate was too stale , and Nanny was a scold : That he dislikes them all , and would with none Be pleas'd , but with his fair and dearest Joan. Tune of , My own sweet Nichol a Cod. I'Ve liv'd in this Town these 5 Years , but never the Lass could find That would prove so true a Lover , as constant and as kind : Now fortune has me befriended , at last to give me one ; Whose true love I discover , then here's a good Health to Joan. I once loved Kate and Jenny , and once I loved Mall ; And then my love turned to Nancy , but now I dislike them all : For I have got a true love , whom I affect alone ; 'Tis she best pleases my fancy , then here's a good health to Joan. With Cate I'de a short encounter , because she was plaguy old , Her Lechery was so hasty , that my love soon grew cold : She proffered me Figgs of the best sort , but I told her I'de have none , cause the strenyth of her breath was so nasty but here's a good health to Joan. At length a wondered kindness , as possible may be thought , Did pass betwixt me and Jenny , burr this was her only fault ; She straddled so wide , and came on so fast . that she made me cry out , be gone , For I think the Devil is in you , then , etc But then there was a secret Court there , betwixt our Mall and I ; And she of her love was so tender , that I hated her Modesty : She was so much given to frowning , and killing glances prove ; That on no terms she'd surrender , then here's a good health to Joan. At last I had a warm passion for Nanny my dear heart ; But whenever her I courted , she was too brisk and smar She'd got a Tongue with a tang in't , and a trick to herself alone ; That she kick'd like a Colt when we sported then , etc Then since i've got a sweetheart , that is both loving and true ; All old Fish i'le defy , and learn to deal with new : For I hate to embrace a Carcase that's nothing but skin and bone ; And has never a whit of beauty , then , etc Since Jenny then was so forward , and impudent withal ; I thought it fit to leave her , and my kindness to recall : For I hate such buxom Lasses , they'l Cuckold me ten to one ; 'Twas policy then to deceive her , then , etc Nor will I fix my heart on those Maids that are too coy ; For Moll she was so squeamish , that she my love did cloy : Then give me the Lass that is loving , and not so scrupulous grown ; For that is the Lass without blemish , then , etc Nor i'le have no more of this scolding , which will but end my days ; She is worse then a smoky Kitchen , which always plagues your eyes . Her tongues the worst part about her , for it is always prove To chatting , and damming , and itching , then , etc Now 'twould be a thing that's needless ; to tell how I dearly love She that my heart has wounded , and does my passion move : She has none of those damnable errors to which most Maids are prove : On her virtues my love is grounded , then , etc She's neither old nor mouldy , she's neither coy nor bold , Nor has she faults of Nancy , she's neither Shrow nor Scold : Then she is the Maid that i'le marry , she has none of these faults of her own , Therefore she best pleases my fancy , then here's a good health to Joan. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . JOANS Victory Over her Fellow-Servants . A Youngman that with many Maids does dwell , Thought Joan the rest in beauty did excel ; Mall was too coy , Jenny was too bold , Kate was too stale , and Nanny was a scold : That he dislikes them all , and would with none Be pleas'd , but with his fair and dearest Joan. Tune of , My own sweet Nichol a Cod. I'Ve liv'd in this Town these 5 Years , but never the Lass could find That would prove so true a Lover , as constant and as kind : Now fortune has me befriended , at last to give me one ; Whose true love I discover , then here's a good Health to Joan. I once loved Kate and Jenny , and once I loved Mall ; And then my love turned to Nancy , but now I dislike them all : For I have got a true love , whom I affect alone ; 'Tis she best pleases my fancy , then here's a good health to Joan. With Cate I'de a short encounter , because she was plaguy old , Her Lechery was so hasty , that my love soon grew cold : She proffered me Figgs of the best sort , but I told her I'de have none , cause the strenyth of her breath was so nasty but here's a good health to Joan. At length a wondered kindness , as possible may be thought , Did pass betwixt me and Jenny , burr this was her only fault ; She straddled so wide , and came on so fast . that she made me cry out , be gone , For I think the Devil is in you , then , etc But then there was a secret Court there , betwixt our Mall and I ; And she of her love was so tender , that I hated her Modesty : She was so much given to frowning , and killing glances prove ; That on no terms she'd surrender , then here's a good health to Joan. At last I had a warm passion for Nanny my dear heart ; But whenever her I courted , she was too brisk and smar She'd got a Tongue with a tang in't , and a trick to herself alone ; That she kick'd like a Colt when we sported then , etc Then since i've got a sweetheart , that is both loving and true ; All old Fish i'le defy , and learn to deal with new : For I hate to embrace a Carcase that's nothing but skin and bone ; And has never a whit of beauty , then , etc Since Jenny then was so forward , and impudent withal ; I thought it fit to leave her , and my kindness to recall : For I hate such buxom Lasses , they'l Cuckold me ten to one ; 'Twas policy then to deceive her , then , etc Nor will I fix my heart on those Maids that are too coy ; For Moll she was so squeamish , that she my love did cloy : Then give me the Lass that is loving , and not so scrupulous grown ; For that is the Lass without blemish , then , etc Nor i'le have no more of this scolding , which will but end my days ; She is worse then a smoky Kitchen , which always plagues your eyes . Her tongues the worst part about her , for it is always prove To chatting , and damming , and itching , then , etc Now 'twould be a thing that's needless ; to tell how I dearly love She that my heart has wounded , and does my passion move : She has none of those damnable errors to which most Maids are prove : On her virtues my love is grounded , then , etc She's neither old nor mouldy , she's neither coy nor bold , Nor has she faults of Nancy , she's neither Shrow nor Scold : Then she is the Maid that i'le marry , she has none of these faults of her own , Therefore she best pleases my fancy , then here's a good health to Joan. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 