The Taylor's Wanton Wife of Wapping : OR , A Hue-and-Cry after a Lac'd Petticoat , flowr'd Gown , and rich Cornet ; with other Apparel , which was lost in the Chamber of Love . To the Tune of What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . HEre I will give you a perfect Relation , of a young Female that liv'd near New Crane Who us'd to ramble for her Recreation , though her poor Husband did sighs & complain , Who was it seems a young honest poor Taylor , which was not able to give her content ; At length she met with a jolly brisk Sailor , and to a Tavern they lovingly went . This Seaman called for store of Canary , which was sufficient to keep out the cold , Thus for a while they were heartily merry , for why ? his pockets were lined with Gold , Thus interchanging their tender Embraces , while in the Tavern together they stay'd , Still he admir'd her amorous Graces , and like two Lovers together they play'd . My dearest Creatare , said he , I had rather have thee , than any fair Lady , I know ; Therefore this night we will both lodge together , home to the Tailor my Dear shall not go : We will enjoy all the raptures of pleasure , a sweeter Creature sure never was known ; I will endow thee with part of my Treasure , and let the Tailor this Night lie alone . As he the Charms of this Jilt did admire , and e'ery beautiful Feature adore , She did immediately grant his desire , thinking thereby for to rifle his store : Said she , I'll seize all the Cargo about him , and then his Courage will surely be laid , And down the Stairs I will soon steel without him for it is reason I should be well paid . The Seaman never fear'd rock , wind , nor weather , which the young Female she cunningly saw , And as they both did fit drinking together , out from his Fob she his Guinea's did draw , And the young Seaman he chanc'd to perceive her yet not a tittle or word did he say : Thought he , I now am resolved to leave her in sad vexation , before Morning-day . She had no sooner laid hold of the Booty , but down the Stairs she was ready to go ; Said the young Seaman , my amorous Beauty , we'll call the Drawer , it must not be so . Seeing alas ! she could not be admitted , again to drinking Canary they fell ; Certainly never was Woman so fitted , o ! 'tis a sorrowful Story to tell . Their Lodging in the next Room was prepared , where the young Seaman soon laid her asleep , Tho' he with drinking was tir'd and wearied , his Eyes from slumber all night he did keep , And before Morning he seiz'd on his Treasure , which to her pocket she fairly convey'd : Said he , Thou now shalt be plagu'd out of measure ; a just Example of thee shall be made . Her silken Coats that was laid down with Laces , her flower'd Gown , with rich Cornet also , This Seaman early next morning embraces , and down the stairs did immediately go : Thus no Apparel alas ! did he leave her , whereby to rig her , when she should awake , Since she did rob him , he vow'd to deceive her , aboard on Ship straight his way he did take . Missing her Gallant , ah ! how she lamented , and for her Husband was forced to send , Who like and honest good Man was contented , saying , she want the first that did offend : It was along of this Rascal the Sailor , his Wife he then was unwilling to blame ; Now there is work for this honest poor Tailor , to cloth and rig his young Jenny again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Taylor's Wanton Wife of Wapping : OR , A Hue-and-Cry after a Lac'd Petticoat , flowr'd Gown , and rich Cornet ; with other Apparel , which was lost in the Chamber of Love . To the Tune of What shall I do to show how much I love her . Licensed according to Order . HEre I will give you a perfect Relation , of a young Female that liv'd near New Crane Who us'd to ramble for her Recreation , though her poor Husband did sighs & complain , Who was it seems a young honest poor Taylor , which was not able to give her content ; At length she met with a jolly brisk Sailor , and to a Tavern they lovingly went . This Seaman called for store of Canary , which was sufficient to keep out the cold , Thus for a while they were heartily merry , for why ? his pockets were lined with Gold , Thus interchanging their tender Embraces , while in the Tavern together they stay'd , Still he admir'd her amorous Graces , and like two Lovers together they play'd . My dearest Creatare , said he , I had rather have thee , than any fair Lady , I know ; Therefore this night we will both lodge together , home to the Tailor my Dear shall not go : We will enjoy all the raptures of pleasure , a sweeter Creature sure never was known ; I will endow thee with part of my Treasure , and let the Tailor this Night lie alone . As he the Charms of this Jilt did admire , and e'ery beautiful Feature adore , She did immediately grant his desire , thinking thereby for to rifle his store : Said she , I'll seize all the Cargo about him , and then his Courage will surely be laid , And down the Stairs I will soon steel without him for it is reason I should be well paid . The Seaman never fear'd rock , wind , nor weather , which the young Female she cunningly saw , And as they both did fit drinking together , out from his Fob she his Guinea's did draw , And the young Seaman he chanc'd to perceive her yet not a tittle or word did he say : Thought he , I now am resolved to leave her in sad vexation , before Morning-day . She had no sooner laid hold of the Booty , but down the Stairs she was ready to go ; Said the young Seaman , my amorous Beauty , we'll call the Drawer , it must not be so . Seeing alas ! she could not be admitted , again to drinking Canary they fell ; Certainly never was Woman so fitted , o ! 'tis a sorrowful Story to tell . Their Lodging in the next Room was prepared , where the young Seaman soon laid her asleep , Tho' he with drinking was tir'd and wearied , his Eyes from slumber all night he did keep , And before Morning he seiz'd on his Treasure , which to her pocket she fairly convey'd : Said he , Thou now shalt be plagu'd out of measure ; a just Example of thee shall be made . Her silken Coats that was laid down with Laces , her flower'd Gown , with rich Cornet also , This Seaman early next morning embraces , and down the stairs did immediately go : Thus no Apparel alas ! did he leave her , whereby to rig her , when she should awake , Since she did rob him , he vow'd to deceive her , aboard on Ship straight his way he did take . Missing her Gallant , ah ! how she lamented , and for her Husband was forced to send , Who like and honest good Man was contented , saying , she want the first that did offend : It was along of this Rascal the Sailor , his Wife he then was unwilling to blame ; Now there is work for this honest poor Tailor , to cloth and rig his young Jenny again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 