THE Crafty Lass of the Wes Or , A Pleasant Ditty of a modest Maid , who Mortgag'd her Maiden-Head for a High-Crown'd Hat . Tune of Liggan-Water . Licensed according to Order . HEre is a Jest I do protest , Of a young Damsel in the West , Whose wit and beauty did excel Most Maids that in those parts did dwell . Therefore my Friends I pray attend , To this new Ditty which is penn'd ; Then if you do not own the same , In troth you will be much to blame . One Morning , Sirs , it happen'd so , She to the Market Town would go , With Purse of Money great and small , To buy a High-Crown'd Hat withal . No sooner was this Lass come there , But she did to a Shop repair , Whereas her Charms did soon ensnare The Bachelor that lived there . Sweet Sir , said she , a Hat I [ ' ] worser have , And let it be as I shall crave , One that is Rich , and light to wear , He soon did fit her to a Hair . Tell me the Price , she then reply'd , Said he , Ten Shillings I deny'd ; But I'll befriend thee , Love , he said , Because thou art a handsome Maid . Thou shalt enjoy it for a Crown , If thou wilt let me lay thee down , Upon a soft fine Featherbed , And there obtain thy Maidenhead . The Damsel pausing , stood a while , At length she answer'd with a Smile , What Maidenhead , and Money too ? I'faith kind Sir , that will not do . He streightways beckn'd her aside , Saying , If she would but abide With him , till the next Morning light , He'd give her this new Hat outright . She did no more disputing stand , But struck the Bargain out of hand ; And having given the Youth content , The Hat she took , and home she went . Now as she tripped on the way , The Damsel to herself did say , I with a High-Crown'd Hat am sped , For a mere silly Maidenhead . When to her Mother coming straight , This precious Bargain to relate ; Said she , Dear Mother , as I'm true , A Hat I have and Money too . Why saucy Slut , her Mother said , How was the good Shopkeeper paid ? He had my Maidenhead , quoth she , Which has been long a Plague to me . The Mother then began to raive , And did her Daughter there beslave ; Likewise she thrash'd her out of Door , Protesting she'd ne'er own her more . If this new Hat she did not take , And with all haste a Journey make , To give it him to whom she'd lain , And fetch her Maidenhead again . Much haste to Town this Damsel made , And to the Hatter thus she said ; My Maidenhead you must restore , Or else I'm ruin'd evermore . Here take your Hat again she said , For I must have my Maidenhead : Come hither , and lie by my side , I'll give it thee again , he cry'd . Now as the youthful Shopkeeper , He was restoring that to her , Thrust it in further Sir , I pray , For fear I lose it by the way . Said he , 'Tis well , thou need'st not fear : These words her drooping Heart did cheer , She made him Court [ ' ] sies to the Ground , Because she had such kindness found . She to her Mother went with speed , And told her that he was indeed And honest Man , for why , said she , He never made a word with me . But Housewife , had he not been so , It would have prov [ ' ] worser your overthrow ; But since he did it thus restore , Be sure you play the Fool no more . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Crafty Lass of the Wes Or , A Pleasant Ditty of a modest Maid , who Mortgag'd her Maiden-Head for a High-Crown'd Hat . Tune of Liggan-Water . Licensed according to Order . HEre is a Jest I do protest , Of a young Damsel in the West , Whose wit and beauty did excel Most Maids that in those parts did dwell . Therefore my Friends I pray attend , To this new Ditty which is penn'd ; Then if you do not own the same , In troth you will be much to blame . One Morning , Sirs , it happen'd so , She to the Market Town would go , With Purse of Money great and small , To buy a High-Crown'd Hat withal . No sooner was this Lass come there , But she did to a Shop repair , Whereas her Charms did soon ensnare The Bachelor that lived there . Sweet Sir , said she , a Hat I [ ' ] worser have , And let it be as I shall crave , One that is Rich , and light to wear , He soon did fit her to a Hair . Tell me the Price , she then reply'd , Said he , Ten Shillings I deny'd ; But I'll befriend thee , Love , he said , Because thou art a handsome Maid . Thou shalt enjoy it for a Crown , If thou wilt let me lay thee down , Upon a soft fine Featherbed , And there obtain thy Maidenhead . The Damsel pausing , stood a while , At length she answer'd with a Smile , What Maidenhead , and Money too ? I'faith kind Sir , that will not do . He streightways beckn'd her aside , Saying , If she would but abide With him , till the next Morning light , He'd give her this new Hat outright . She did no more disputing stand , But struck the Bargain out of hand ; And having given the Youth content , The Hat she took , and home she went . Now as she tripped on the way , The Damsel to herself did say , I with a High-Crown'd Hat am sped , For a mere silly Maidenhead . When to her Mother coming straight , This precious Bargain to relate ; Said she , Dear Mother , as I'm true , A Hat I have and Money too . Why saucy Slut , her Mother said , How was the good Shopkeeper paid ? He had my Maidenhead , quoth she , Which has been long a Plague to me . The Mother then began to raive , And did her Daughter there beslave ; Likewise she thrash'd her out of Door , Protesting she'd ne'er own her more . If this new Hat she did not take , And with all haste a Journey make , To give it him to whom she'd lain , And fetch her Maidenhead again . Much haste to Town this Damsel made , And to the Hatter thus she said ; My Maidenhead you must restore , Or else I'm ruin'd evermore . Here take your Hat again she said , For I must have my Maidenhead : Come hither , and lie by my side , I'll give it thee again , he cry'd . Now as the youthful Shopkeeper , He was restoring that to her , Thrust it in further Sir , I pray , For fear I lose it by the way . Said he , 'Tis well , thou need'st not fear : These words her drooping Heart did cheer , She made him Court [ ' ] sies to the Ground , Because she had such kindness found . She to her Mother went with speed , And told her that he was indeed And honest Man , for why , said she , He never made a word with me . But Housewife , had he not been so , It would have prov [ ' ] worser your overthrow ; But since he did it thus restore , Be sure you play the Fool no more . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 