A Full Description of The Manner of Executing the Sentence upon Titus Oats FOR Perjury , As it was Awarded at the Kings-Bench-Bar at Westminster , May the 16th . 1685 as follows . To be divested of his Canonical Habit forever ; to wear a Paper on his Forehead , declaring his Horrid Perjuries ; to stand in the Pillory on Monday at Westminster-Hall-Gate ; on Tuesday at the Royal-Exchange ; on Wednesday to be Whipped from Ald [ - ] gate to New-gate by the common Hangman ; on Fryday from New-gate to Tyburn ; and to stand in the Pillory also every 24th . of April at Tyburn ; every 9th . of August at Westminster , 10th of Au - gust at Charing Cross , 11th of August at Temple-Bar ; and every 2d of September at the Royal-Exchange ; being Fined One Thousand Marks for each Perjury , and to suffer Imprisonment during Life . The Explanation of the Figures . 1 In Westminster-Hall with a Paper on his Forehead of his Crime . 2 Stripped of his Canonical Habit. 3 Stand [ ing in tO ] he Pillory . [ 4 ] His Whipping at the Carts-Arse . 5 Tyburn . HEre Gentle Reader , thou mayest cast thy Eye , And see the Due Reward of Perjury . Perjury ! of that black Die , that dismal Hue , Which none but Oats , & his Infernal Crew Cou'd ere have Impudence enough to Frame , Three whole deluded Kingdoms to Inflame . The Blood of Murder'd Innocents to shed , And pull down Vengeance on his Guilty Head. A Viler Mass of Villainous Shams and Lies , Imposture , Cheat , Delusion , Forgeries , Not all Hells Imps could e're together twis Nor Blacker Lips the Holy BIBLE Kiss't . Whole Deluges of Blood cou'd scarce assuage The Hunger of his All-Devouring Rage ; So Keen his Spite , that nothing Great or Good From his Destroying Oaths protected stood ; The shining Virtues of our Gracious KING Could not escape his Venoms poyson'd sting . The Perjur'd Slave ( void of all Grace and Shame ) Durst even profane the Mighty YORKS bright Name . Great YORK , to his Eternal Glory due , Truest of Friends , and Faithfull'st Brother too . Whom now Just Heaven t' his Rightful Diadem Brings The Best of Subject's Crown'd the Best of KINGS : Nay , the Black Gaul of his polluted Tongue Durst even the Royal Spotless CATHERINE Wrong ; The Sacred Partner of Great CHARLES his Bed ; A purer Saint a Life on Earth n'ere led , Since the Blessed MARYES Glorious Raze was run , The Maiden-Mother t'an Immortal Son : Her to his Plot the Impious Slave durst bring , As Poisoner to her best Loved LORD , and KING . A Lie so Rank , so Execrably Base , Would raise a Blush even in and AEthiops Face . Yet this Bright Saint the Traitor durst belly , And never Tremble at the Blasphemy . But now his Damn'd Designs are all Unhing'd , And Guiltless Blood will be at last Reveng'd . And as a Penance for his Crying since , His disrobed Gown , does the first Scene begin , Too long a cover to th' foul Fiend within : While o're his Brow , like Murdering Cain's old Brand , In Capital Characters his Treasons stand , T' Expose the Pest and Monster of the Land. Then to the Pillory his Front of Brass , And Face of Steel in solemn Triumph pass . Exalted here to all the Gazing Crowd ( No Shame too Public , and no Scorn too Loud : ) His advanc'd Head , and his noos'd Neck we see ; A Neck would even Disgrace the Tyburn Tree . Then up towards Paddington behold him Trot , His Shoulders laid as naked as his Plot . To the Carts-Tayl our little Titus Tied , While Brisk Jack-Ketch bescowers his Swearing Hide ; And the kind Lash does his Jirkt Bones Cajole , Not half so Tough as his more Harden'd Soul. LONDON , Printed for Tho. Graves , 1685. A Full Description of The Manner of Executing the Sentence upon Titus Oats FOR Perjury , As it was Awarded at the Kings-Bench-Bar at Westminster , May the 16th . 1685 as follows . To be divested of his Canonical Habit forever ; to wear a Paper on his Forehead , declaring his Horrid Perjuries ; to stand in the Pillory on Monday at Westminster-Hall-Gate ; on Tuesday at the Royal-Exchange ; on Wednesday to be Whipped from Ald [ - ] gate to New-gate by the common Hangman ; on Fryday from New-gate to Tyburn ; and to stand in the Pillory also every 24th . of April at Tyburn ; every 9th . of August at Westminster , 10th of Au - gust at Charing Cross , 11th of August at Temple-Bar ; and every 2d of September at the Royal-Exchange ; being Fined One Thousand Marks for each Perjury , and to suffer Imprisonment during Life . The Explanation of the Figures . 1 In Westminster-Hall with a Paper on his Forehead of his Crime . 2 Stripped of his Canonical Habit. 3 Stand [ ing in tO ] he Pillory . [ 4 ] His Whipping at the Carts-Arse . 5 Tyburn . HEre Gentle Reader , thou mayest cast thy Eye , And see the Due Reward of Perjury . Perjury ! of that black Die , that dismal Hue , Which none but Oats , & his Infernal Crew Cou'd ere have Impudence enough to Frame , Three whole deluded Kingdoms to Inflame . The Blood of Murder'd Innocents to shed , And pull down Vengeance on his Guilty Head. A Viler Mass of Villainous Shams and Lies , Imposture , Cheat , Delusion , Forgeries , Not all Hells Imps could e're together twis Nor Blacker Lips the Holy BIBLE Kiss't . Whole Deluges of Blood cou'd scarce assuage The Hunger of his All-Devouring Rage ; So Keen his Spite , that nothing Great or Good From his Destroying Oaths protected stood ; The shining Virtues of our Gracious KING Could not escape his Venoms poyson'd sting . The Perjur'd Slave ( void of all Grace and Shame ) Durst even profane the Mighty YORKS bright Name . Great YORK , to his Eternal Glory due , Truest of Friends , and Faithfull'st Brother too . Whom now Just Heaven t' his Rightful Diadem Brings The Best of Subject's Crown'd the Best of KINGS : Nay , the Black Gaul of his polluted Tongue Durst even the Royal Spotless CATHERINE Wrong ; The Sacred Partner of Great CHARLES his Bed ; A purer Saint a Life on Earth n'ere led , Since the Blessed MARYES Glorious Raze was run , The Maiden-Mother t'an Immortal Son : Her to his Plot the Impious Slave durst bring , As Poisoner to her best Loved LORD , and KING . A Lie so Rank , so Execrably Base , Would raise a Blush even in and AEthiops Face . Yet this Bright Saint the Traitor durst belly , And never Tremble at the Blasphemy . But now his Damn'd Designs are all Unhing'd , And Guiltless Blood will be at last Reveng'd . And as a Penance for his Crying since , His disrobed Gown , does the first Scene begin , Too long a cover to th' foul Fiend within : While o're his Brow , like Murdering Cain's old Brand , In Capital Characters his Treasons stand , T' Expose the Pest and Monster of the Land. Then to the Pillory his Front of Brass , And Face of Steel in solemn Triumph pass . Exalted here to all the Gazing Crowd ( No Shame too Public , and no Scorn too Loud : ) His advanc'd Head , and his noos'd Neck we see ; A Neck would even Disgrace the Tyburn Tree . Then up towards Paddington behold him Trot , His Shoulders laid as naked as his Plot . To the Carts-Tayl our little Titus Tied , While Brisk Jack-Ketch bescowers his Swearing Hide ; And the kind Lash does his Jirkt Bones Cajole , Not half so Tough as his more Harden'd Soul. LONDON , Printed for Tho. Graves , 1685. 