THE Ungrateful Rebel ; OR , Gracious Clemency Rewarded with Villainy . Tune of , The Turn-Coat of the Times . HEre is a disloyal Touch , Now newly come from the Dutch , Of one that has acted much ; And of the Factious breed , He was in the West indeed , Now better to Hang than feed ; His Pardon he did obtain , And now he is gone again , To join with the Dutch , And have t'other touch , Is this not a Rogue in grain ? He did a Letter send , Unto and old Factious Friend , And these was the Lines he penn'd : Allegiance now give o're , And come to the West once more , Here's Silver and Gold Gillore , Ne'er stand in the least to pause , Or startle at breath of Laws , But venture your Neck , It is but a check , Stand up for the good old Cause . To my Credit be it spoke , I kept a Shop , but I broke , And vanished away in smoke ; My Creditors great and small , I'faith I have paid them all , But gave them no Coin at all , And now I am gone to fight , And whether't be wrong or right , I cry'd down the Pope , But 'tis with that hope , To get a good Booty by't . Though we a Rebellion make , And Heavenly Laws do break , It is for Religions sake ; And therefore we proceed , To make the whole Nation bleed , And count it a righteous deed : Whenever I do draw nigh , Great Persons of Loyalty , Is I am a Knave , Their Treasure I crave , For Riffling who but I . We rally and march about , To find the Rich Roman out , Then put them all to the rout , Nay , any Protestant Lord , If with us he won't accord , We'll presently fallen aboard ; For being both stout and strong , We will not stand parling long : If Loyal he be , 'Tis all one to we , We'll Plunder him right or wrong . To take off the Nations Yoke , Religion is made a Cloak , To cover the fatal stroke , But for my part alone , Religion I ne're had none , Except to disturb the Throne : With Orange now brisk and trim I venture both Life and Limb , And if the great Turk , Wou'd set me at work , I would do as much for him . Printed for N. Sliggen . THE Ungrateful Rebel ; OR , Gracious Clemency Rewarded with Villainy . Tune of , The Turn-Coat of the Times . HEre is a disloyal Touch , Now newly come from the Dutch , Of one that has acted much ; And of the Factious breed , He was in the West indeed , Now better to Hang than feed ; His Pardon he did obtain , And now he is gone again , To join with the Dutch , And have t'other touch , Is this not a Rogue in grain ? He did a Letter send , Unto and old Factious Friend , And these was the Lines he penn'd : Allegiance now give o're , And come to the West once more , Here's Silver and Gold Gillore , Ne'er stand in the least to pause , Or startle at breath of Laws , But venture your Neck , It is but a check , Stand up for the good old Cause . To my Credit be it spoke , I kept a Shop , but I broke , And vanished away in smoke ; My Creditors great and small , I'faith I have paid them all , But gave them no Coin at all , And now I am gone to fight , And whether't be wrong or right , I cry'd down the Pope , But 'tis with that hope , To get a good Booty by't . Though we a Rebellion make , And Heavenly Laws do break , It is for Religions sake ; And therefore we proceed , To make the whole Nation bleed , And count it a righteous deed : Whenever I do draw nigh , Great Persons of Loyalty , Is I am a Knave , Their Treasure I crave , For Riffling who but I . We rally and march about , To find the Rich Roman out , Then put them all to the rout , Nay , any Protestant Lord , If with us he won't accord , We'll presently fallen aboard ; For being both stout and strong , We will not stand parling long : If Loyal he be , 'Tis all one to we , We'll Plunder him right or wrong . To take off the Nations Yoke , Religion is made a Cloak , To cover the fatal stroke , But for my part alone , Religion I ne're had none , Except to disturb the Throne : With Orange now brisk and trim I venture both Life and Limb , And if the great Turk , Wou'd set me at work , I would do as much for him . Printed for N. Sliggen . 