The bad Husbands Reformation , OR , The Ale-Wives daily Deceit . If thou in Folly thus proceed , what e're you Earn to spend ; When thou art in the greatest need , one Groat they will not lend . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death ; Or , The poor men Counselor . This may be Printed , R.P. I Was a bad Husband , that had a good Trade , But I of the same such ill profit have made , By taking my pleasure in folly so large , I seldom or never took care of my Charge : This caused much sorrow and grief to my Wife , But now I'm resolved to led a new Life . While I run to ruin , she would me advice , With tender expressions , and tears in her eyes , If thou wilt be ruled , I then w [ i ] ll contrive , To do my endeavour in order to thrive : Still I ne'r regarded the words of my Wife Yet now , I'm resolved to led a new Life . Your jovial Companions and Alewives , you'l find , When you are in trouble will prove most unkind ; They'l laugh at your folly , and slight you like dirt , You'l find what I tell you is not for your hurt ; In scorn I disdain'd to be rul'd by my Wife , But now I [ ' ] m resolved to led a new Life . While I took my pleasure I'de ramble and roam , And never delighted to come to my home ; In Gaming and Drinking I wasted my strength , Till I was reduced to sorrow at length ; And then I remembered the words of my Wife , Resolving therefore for to led a new Life . While I in Extravagant courses run on , The Alewife would call me a right honest Man , As long as I labour'd and brought it her all , As likewise for Liquour most freely would call ; She would take my part then against my poor Wife , But now I resolve for to led a new life . At length I did chance to be out of Employ , And my Wife soar sick , I , and likely to die ; And I having nothing in time of distress , My grief , care and sorrow , was great , you may guess : Because I had nothing to nourish my Wife , But now I'm resolved to led a new life . Away to my Hostis I went with all speed , In hope's for to borrow a Crown in my need ; And when I had told her my sorrowful Tale . It was but in vain , for I could not prevail , In borrowing a Tester to comfort my Wife , Therefore I resolved to led a new life . Tho' then I had told her the depth of my grief , She would not afford me the least of relief ; Her words was so killing when to me she spoke , I thought in my sorrows , my heart would have broke Then , then I remembered the words of my Wife , And therefore resolved to led a new life . Now just as I was at the point of despair , Wrapped in those troubles of sorrows and care ; Behold how good Providence then did provide , I god into Labour , whereon I rely'd ; To bring in a daily supply to my Wife , And likewise resolved to led a new life . And this did my grief and my troubles expel , My Wife she recover'd , and all things went well , Now Love , Peace , and Plenty , does daily abound , I ne'r will forget how my Hostis she frown'd ; Whatever I earn i'le bring home to my Wife , As being resolved to led a new Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . The bad Husbands Reformation , OR , The Ale-Wives daily Deceit . If thou in Folly thus proceed , what e're you Earn to spend ; When thou art in the greatest need , one Groat they will not lend . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death ; Or , The poor men Counselor . This may be Printed , R.P. I Was a bad Husband , that had a good Trade , But I of the same such ill profit have made , By taking my pleasure in folly so large , I seldom or never took care of my Charge : This caused much sorrow and grief to my Wife , But now I'm resolved to led a new Life . While I run to ruin , she would me advice , With tender expressions , and tears in her eyes , If thou wilt be ruled , I then w [ i ] ll contrive , To do my endeavour in order to thrive : Still I ne'r regarded the words of my Wife Yet now , I'm resolved to led a new Life . Your jovial Companions and Alewives , you'l find , When you are in trouble will prove most unkind ; They'l laugh at your folly , and slight you like dirt , You'l find what I tell you is not for your hurt ; In scorn I disdain'd to be rul'd by my Wife , But now I [ ' ] m resolved to led a new Life . While I took my pleasure I'de ramble and roam , And never delighted to come to my home ; In Gaming and Drinking I wasted my strength , Till I was reduced to sorrow at length ; And then I remembered the words of my Wife , Resolving therefore for to led a new Life . While I in Extravagant courses run on , The Alewife would call me a right honest Man , As long as I labour'd and brought it her all , As likewise for Liquour most freely would call ; She would take my part then against my poor Wife , But now I resolve for to led a new life . At length I did chance to be out of Employ , And my Wife soar sick , I , and likely to die ; And I having nothing in time of distress , My grief , care and sorrow , was great , you may guess : Because I had nothing to nourish my Wife , But now I'm resolved to led a new life . Away to my Hostis I went with all speed , In hope's for to borrow a Crown in my need ; And when I had told her my sorrowful Tale . It was but in vain , for I could not prevail , In borrowing a Tester to comfort my Wife , Therefore I resolved to led a new life . Tho' then I had told her the depth of my grief , She would not afford me the least of relief ; Her words was so killing when to me she spoke , I thought in my sorrows , my heart would have broke Then , then I remembered the words of my Wife , And therefore resolved to led a new life . Now just as I was at the point of despair , Wrapped in those troubles of sorrows and care ; Behold how good Providence then did provide , I god into Labour , whereon I rely'd ; To bring in a daily supply to my Wife , And likewise resolved to led a new life . And this did my grief and my troubles expel , My Wife she recover'd , and all things went well , Now Love , Peace , and Plenty , does daily abound , I ne'r will forget how my Hostis she frown'd ; Whatever I earn i'le bring home to my Wife , As being resolved to led a new Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . 