I Father a Child that's none of my own , BEING The SEAMANS Complaint , Who took a Whore instead of a Saint . Showing , That while he was Trading Seven Years from Port to Port at Sea , and brought home great Wealth ; his Wife in the meantime by Trading in the Low Countries , god a Mischance , fell down and broke her ------ Elbow : above all praising the Innocence of a Coun - try Life . To the Tune of , Cook Laurel : Or , Give me the Lass , etc IF every Woman was serv'd in her kind , and every Man had his just desert , The Rooms in Bridewel would be so well lin'd , that a Coach could not pass in the street for a Cart. Full seven long years have I cross'd the Seas , mean time I've been crossed as much on the Land , My Wife still at home did live at her ease , I'm sure she had all things at her command . She needed not her fingers to wet , yet she keeps her Gallant , she was so high flown But sure I must loose by the Stake or the Bet , If I Father a Child that is none of my own . I that have escaped the Rocks and the Sand , & climbed the Billows when storms they have blown At last am come to be Ship-wrack'd on Land , To Father a Child that is none of my own . I Have Traded abroad to bring home same Wealth , from Port unto Port in far Countries unknown , Meanwhile my Wife has been trading by stealth , And god me a Child , though 'tis none of my own My Neighbours all they do laugh me to scorn , and point their fingers at me and my Joan , Saying , that I must drink out of a Horn , and Father a Child that is none of my own . Though I cannot Pocket my Horns as some can , by good Women's Tattles they are so o're-grown ; Yet 'tis the hard case of many a Man , all you that hear me look home to your own . For Gallants are dainty and seek in the Throng , and love for to pick on another men Bone , So many and honest good Fellow has wrong , to Father a Child that is none of his own . In Ciries and Towns of greatest request , this sly sort of Pilfering Trade is much known , If a man has a beautiful Wife he can't rest , for fear to keep Children that's none of his own . But well fare the Country , they live at their ease , their innocence all their Actions does Crown , they may go , they may stay , they may do what they please and fear not to keep any more than their own . The Plowman that works far a Field all the day , and Shepherd that keepeth his Sheep all alone , At night when at home with their wives they may pla [ y ] and fear not to Father what's none of their owe [ n . ] Now I must Rock the Cradle , beside dry Clouts on my Horns by the fire at home , When I look abroad my Neighbours deride , 'cause I Father a Child that is none of my own . And is not this most damnable strange , to be led by every Strumpets moan , I may fit and fell Horns at the Royal Exchange , when I Father a Child that is none of my own [ . ] A man may be made a Cuckold by chance , and put another men Child to Nurse , And Hoodwink his Horns through Ignorance , but he that's a Wittal is ten times worse . But i'le never grieve , but let it all pass , by Woman there's many a Man overthrown , Although I'm and Ox , i'le ne'r be and Ass , to Father a Child that is none of my own . Neither did I spring out of that Raze , to call that my Seed which another hath sown , Then ne'r let me look King Charles in the face , if I Father a Child that is none of my own . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . I Father a Child that's none of my own , BEING The SEAMANS Complaint , Who took a Whore instead of a Saint . Showing , That while he was Trading Seven Years from Port to Port at Sea , and brought home great Wealth ; his Wife in the meantime by Trading in the Low Countries , god a Mischance , fell down and broke her ------ Elbow : above all praising the Innocence of a Coun - try Life . To the Tune of , Cook Laurel : Or , Give me the Lass , etc IF every Woman was serv'd in her kind , and every Man had his just desert , The Rooms in Bridewel would be so well lin'd , that a Coach could not pass in the street for a Cart. Full seven long years have I cross'd the Seas , mean time I've been crossed as much on the Land , My Wife still at home did live at her ease , I'm sure she had all things at her command . She needed not her fingers to wet , yet she keeps her Gallant , she was so high flown But sure I must loose by the Stake or the Bet , If I Father a Child that is none of my own . I that have escaped the Rocks and the Sand , & climbed the Billows when storms they have blown At last am come to be Ship-wrack'd on Land , To Father a Child that is none of my own . I Have Traded abroad to bring home same Wealth , from Port unto Port in far Countries unknown , Meanwhile my Wife has been trading by stealth , And god me a Child , though 'tis none of my own My Neighbours all they do laugh me to scorn , and point their fingers at me and my Joan , Saying , that I must drink out of a Horn , and Father a Child that is none of my own . Though I cannot Pocket my Horns as some can , by good Women's Tattles they are so o're-grown ; Yet 'tis the hard case of many a Man , all you that hear me look home to your own . For Gallants are dainty and seek in the Throng , and love for to pick on another men Bone , So many and honest good Fellow has wrong , to Father a Child that is none of his own . In Ciries and Towns of greatest request , this sly sort of Pilfering Trade is much known , If a man has a beautiful Wife he can't rest , for fear to keep Children that's none of his own . But well fare the Country , they live at their ease , their innocence all their Actions does Crown , they may go , they may stay , they may do what they please and fear not to keep any more than their own . The Plowman that works far a Field all the day , and Shepherd that keepeth his Sheep all alone , At night when at home with their wives they may pla [ y ] and fear not to Father what's none of their owe [ n . ] Now I must Rock the Cradle , beside dry Clouts on my Horns by the fire at home , When I look abroad my Neighbours deride , 'cause I Father a Child that is none of my own . And is not this most damnable strange , to be led by every Strumpets moan , I may fit and fell Horns at the Royal Exchange , when I Father a Child that is none of my own [ . ] A man may be made a Cuckold by chance , and put another men Child to Nurse , And Hoodwink his Horns through Ignorance , but he that's a Wittal is ten times worse . But i'le never grieve , but let it all pass , by Woman there's many a Man overthrown , Although I'm and Ox , i'le ne'r be and Ass , to Father a Child that is none of my own . Neither did I spring out of that Raze , to call that my Seed which another hath sown , Then ne'r let me look King Charles in the face , if I Father a Child that is none of my own . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 