The Hasty Lover ; With the Young Woman's Answer Love me and Marry me . To a Pleasant New Tune . IF you will love me , be free in expressing it , & henceforth give me no cause to complain , Or if you hate me be plain in confessing it , and in few words put me out of my pain ; This long delaying , with sighing and praying , breeds only delaying in life and Amour , Cooing and Wooing , and such foolish doing , has oft been my Ruin , therefore I'll give o're . If you'll propose a kind method of ruling me , I may return to my Duty again , But if you stick to your old way of fooling me , I must be plain , I am none of your Man , Passion for passion , on each occasion , with free inclination does kindle loves fire ; But tedious prating , coy folly debating , and new doubts creating , still makes it expire . WOMAN . You love , and yet when I ask you to marry me , still have recourse to the tricks of your Art , Then like a Fencer you cunningly parry me , yet the same time make a pass at my heart , Fie fie deceiver no longer endeavour , or think this way ever the Fort will be wone , No found caressing must be , nor unlacing , or tender embracing till the Parson has done . Some say that Marriage a Dog with a Bottle is , pleasing their humours to rail at their Wives , Others declare it and Ape with a Rattle is , comfort destroyer and plague of their lives ; Some are afflriming a Trap 'tis for Vermin , and yet with the bait , though not Prison agree , Venturing that choose you must let me espouse you , if ere my dear Mouse you will nibble at me . MAN . Tho' you're so scornful now thus to disdain my Love I'll vow and swear by the Powers above , If you be kinder , and let me obtain your love , from you I'll never , I'll never remove ; Then prithee Sally , nor stand shally shally , nor no longer dally , but give your consent , Though I'll not marry , you shall not miscarry , then prithee don't tarry , but tell your intent . WOMAN . Though you so cunningly strive to obtain my Love , Thus I must tell you I'm not to be wone , For should I yield Sir , you soon would disdain my love and to some other new Mistress would run , Prithee Deceiver no longer endeavour , or think that I ever will give my consent , I tell you Sir Harry , for fear I miscarry , unless you will marry , this is my intent . Printed for Charles Barnet . The Hasty Lover ; With the Young Woman's Answer Love me and Marry me . To a Pleasant New Tune . IF you will love me , be free in expressing it , & henceforth give me no cause to complain , Or if you hate me be plain in confessing it , and in few words put me out of my pain ; This long delaying , with sighing and praying , breeds only delaying in life and Amour , Cooing and Wooing , and such foolish doing , has oft been my Ruin , therefore I'll give o're . If you'll propose a kind method of ruling me , I may return to my Duty again , But if you stick to your old way of fooling me , I must be plain , I am none of your Man , Passion for passion , on each occasion , with free inclination does kindle loves fire ; But tedious prating , coy folly debating , and new doubts creating , still makes it expire . WOMAN . You love , and yet when I ask you to marry me , still have recourse to the tricks of your Art , Then like a Fencer you cunningly parry me , yet the same time make a pass at my heart , Fie fie deceiver no longer endeavour , or think this way ever the Fort will be wone , No found caressing must be , nor unlacing , or tender embracing till the Parson has done . Some say that Marriage a Dog with a Bottle is , pleasing their humours to rail at their Wives , Others declare it and Ape with a Rattle is , comfort destroyer and plague of their lives ; Some are afflriming a Trap 'tis for Vermin , and yet with the bait , though not Prison agree , Venturing that choose you must let me espouse you , if ere my dear Mouse you will nibble at me . MAN . Tho' you're so scornful now thus to disdain my Love I'll vow and swear by the Powers above , If you be kinder , and let me obtain your love , from you I'll never , I'll never remove ; Then prithee Sally , nor stand shally shally , nor no longer dally , but give your consent , Though I'll not marry , you shall not miscarry , then prithee don't tarry , but tell your intent . WOMAN . Though you so cunningly strive to obtain my Love , Thus I must tell you I'm not to be wone , For should I yield Sir , you soon would disdain my love and to some other new Mistress would run , Prithee Deceiver no longer endeavour , or think that I ever will give my consent , I tell you Sir Harry , for fear I miscarry , unless you will marry , this is my intent . Printed for Charles Barnet . 