THE Miserable Mountebank , OR , A Fierce encounter betwixt downright Dick , and this Devil of a Doctor , one morning in a Market place . It seems he says he'd raise the dead , by Virtue of his Pill , But Richard came and broke his Head , for his confounded Skill . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . This may be Printed , R.P. IN a Market town of late , a Mountebank was balling ; At a strange romancing rate , he stood himself extolling ; Hear is my never failing Pill , come buy it whoever pleases , For here I do declare it will , Sirs , Cure you of all diseases . As for Gravel , Stone or Gout , it lies within my power , With this Pill to purge it out , in less than half and hour ; It cures the Megrum in the head , and every inflammation ; It has raised some persons from the dead , unto the world's admiration . Downright Dick was standing there , who had been often cheated ; Therefore he could not forbear but straight these words repeated ; I here am vexed to the heart , good people forbear your buying , Had this Rascal his due desert , he wou'd be well whipped for lying . Dick he called him shurking Knave , and proffer'd to a fought him , But the Mounty-bank did rave , so did his fools about him : Quoth Richard come down from your stage , and do not make such a racket , Here in this market I would engage to liquour your lousy J [ a ] cket . Dick had a quarter staff , which he knew how to handle ; But the Mountebank did laugh , and said , beware of your Candle ; My Sword shall put you in the dumps , quoth Richard I do not fear you , I faith I mean to make Clubs trumps , if once I can come but near you . Though I am a plowman born , I fear no Sword nor Rapier ; Such men I do hold in scorn , who will no more than vaper : You Slave , it is not my delight to rangle and hold a parley , If you have any mind to fight , come hither and meet me fairly . He came from his Stage straightway , a quarterstaff was brought him , Then begun a lusty fray , where lusty Richard taught him Such breeding which he never knew ; he did not stand to beslave him , But made the Mountebank look blue at every bang he gave him . There the Mountebanks head man with high flown words stood flashing , But stout Richard laid it on , as if he had been threshing ; He follow'd him with store of stripes , which made his poor Bones to rattle , His Galley-pots and Glister-pipes was never in such a battle . Dick at length did crack his Crown , beside his bones he laces , And the blood did trickle down in more than twenty places ; He went to run away amain , his bloody streams did surprise him , But Richard fetch'd him round again , and told him he must chastise him . Nay , I'll swear you if I live , and therefore pray Sir tarry ; You shall never glisters give , to make young maids miscarry ; Another Oath I will repeat and see you think always on it ; When e're you do a plowman meet , to him you shall vail your Bonnet . Yes , I swear to keep them both , as you do me desire , From this very day henceforth , a Plowman i'le admire ; Away the Mountebank did sneak , and was by his Fools attended , Another word they dare not speak , lest Richard should be offended . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur street . THE Miserable Mountebank , OR , A Fierce encounter betwixt downright Dick , and this Devil of a Doctor , one morning in a Market place . It seems he says he'd raise the dead , by Virtue of his Pill , But Richard came and broke his Head , for his confounded Skill . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . This may be Printed , R.P. IN a Market town of late , a Mountebank was balling ; At a strange romancing rate , he stood himself extolling ; Hear is my never failing Pill , come buy it whoever pleases , For here I do declare it will , Sirs , Cure you of all diseases . As for Gravel , Stone or Gout , it lies within my power , With this Pill to purge it out , in less than half and hour ; It cures the Megrum in the head , and every inflammation ; It has raised some persons from the dead , unto the world's admiration . Downright Dick was standing there , who had been often cheated ; Therefore he could not forbear but straight these words repeated ; I here am vexed to the heart , good people forbear your buying , Had this Rascal his due desert , he wou'd be well whipped for lying . Dick he called him shurking Knave , and proffer'd to a fought him , But the Mounty-bank did rave , so did his fools about him : Quoth Richard come down from your stage , and do not make such a racket , Here in this market I would engage to liquour your lousy J [ a ] cket . Dick had a quarter staff , which he knew how to handle ; But the Mountebank did laugh , and said , beware of your Candle ; My Sword shall put you in the dumps , quoth Richard I do not fear you , I faith I mean to make Clubs trumps , if once I can come but near you . Though I am a plowman born , I fear no Sword nor Rapier ; Such men I do hold in scorn , who will no more than vaper : You Slave , it is not my delight to rangle and hold a parley , If you have any mind to fight , come hither and meet me fairly . He came from his Stage straightway , a quarterstaff was brought him , Then begun a lusty fray , where lusty Richard taught him Such breeding which he never knew ; he did not stand to beslave him , But made the Mountebank look blue at every bang he gave him . There the Mountebanks head man with high flown words stood flashing , But stout Richard laid it on , as if he had been threshing ; He follow'd him with store of stripes , which made his poor Bones to rattle , His Galley-pots and Glister-pipes was never in such a battle . Dick at length did crack his Crown , beside his bones he laces , And the blood did trickle down in more than twenty places ; He went to run away amain , his bloody streams did surprise him , But Richard fetch'd him round again , and told him he must chastise him . Nay , I'll swear you if I live , and therefore pray Sir tarry ; You shall never glisters give , to make young maids miscarry ; Another Oath I will repeat and see you think always on it ; When e're you do a plowman meet , to him you shall vail your Bonnet . Yes , I swear to keep them both , as you do me desire , From this very day henceforth , a Plowman i'le admire ; Away the Mountebank did sneak , and was by his Fools attended , Another word they dare not speak , lest Richard should be offended . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur street . 