THE WANTON WIFE OF BAITH . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . IN Baith a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he did write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight . Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die : Her soul at last at Heavens gate did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the wife of Baith , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shalt have . Alace ! for you , good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite , she said , of all such Churls as thee : Thou wast the causer of our woe , our pain and misery : And first broke Gods Commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob to the gate , and bids her pack to Hell . Thou false Deceiver , why , said she ? thou may'st be there full well : For thou deceiv'dst thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straight . Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , on them two bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chafed against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here , quoth Judeth then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alace ! fine Minks , you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judeth blushed for shame when she herd her say so . [ King ] David hearing of the same , [ he to ] the gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good Sir , said she , unto Uriah's wife . And when thou caused thy servant in battle to be slave : Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King . Not half so mad as you , she said , I know , in many thing . Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once , for whom thou didst provide : And for all this , three hundred whores thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship stocks and stones : Beside the charge they put thee to , by breeding of young bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not thus have ventured : And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place hast entered . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a Scold as this . Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of Aspen leaves be made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate : Quoth she , Good woman , you must think upon your former state : No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then . 'Twere ill for you , fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she , should once been ston'd to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the earth . It is not by your occupation , you are become Divine : I hope my soul in Christ's passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember , Paul , what thou hast done , all through a lewd desire : How thou didst persecute Gods Church with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he hies : Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone : I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave : quoth he , Thou hast refus'd My proffer , grace , and mercy both , and much my Name abus'd . Soar have I sinn'd , O , Lord , said she and spent my time in vain : But bring me like a wandering sheep , unto thy flock again . O Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee : But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did ye . I grant the same , O , Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live : But yet the loving father did his prodigal son forgive . And I forgive thy soul , he said , through thy repentant cry : Come therefore enter in my joys , I will thee not deny . FINIS . THE WANTON WIFE OF BAITH . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . IN Baith a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he did write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight . Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die : Her soul at last at Heavens gate did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the wife of Baith , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shalt have . Alace ! for you , good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite , she said , of all such Churls as thee : Thou wast the causer of our woe , our pain and misery : And first broke Gods Commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob to the gate , and bids her pack to Hell . Thou false Deceiver , why , said she ? thou may'st be there full well : For thou deceiv'dst thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straight . Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , on them two bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chafed against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here , quoth Judeth then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alace ! fine Minks , you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judeth blushed for shame when she herd her say so . [ King ] David hearing of the same , [ he to ] the gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good Sir , said she , unto Uriah's wife . And when thou caused thy servant in battle to be slave : Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King . Not half so mad as you , she said , I know , in many thing . Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once , for whom thou didst provide : And for all this , three hundred whores thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship stocks and stones : Beside the charge they put thee to , by breeding of young bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not thus have ventured : And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place hast entered . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a Scold as this . Thou whoreson runaway , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of Aspen leaves be made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate : Quoth she , Good woman , you must think upon your former state : No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then . 'Twere ill for you , fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she , should once been ston'd to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the earth . It is not by your occupation , you are become Divine : I hope my soul in Christ's passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be deny'd . Remember , Paul , what thou hast done , all through a lewd desire : How thou didst persecute Gods Church with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he hies : Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone : I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave : quoth he , Thou hast refus'd My proffer , grace , and mercy both , and much my Name abus'd . Soar have I sinn'd , O , Lord , said she and spent my time in vain : But bring me like a wandering sheep , unto thy flock again . O Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee : But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did ye . I grant the same , O , Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live : But yet the loving father did his prodigal son forgive . And I forgive thy soul , he said , through thy repentant cry : Come therefore enter in my joys , I will thee not deny . FINIS . 