The Royal Strangers Ramble , Or , The Remarkable Lives , Customs , and Character of the Four Indian Kings : With the manner of their Daily Pastimes , Humours , and Behaviours since their first Landing in England . Render'd into Pleasant and Familiar Verse . Written by a Person of Quality . Enter'd in the Hall Book of the Company of Stationers , pursuant to and Act of Parliament . FOur Monarchs of Worth , From their Kingdoms set forth , Without Hose or Shoes to their Feet ; In order to know How Affairs did here go , And of Things of Importance to Treat . They no sooner approach'd P ----- h , but were Coach'd In the G ----- rs old tatter'd Chariot . That drawn by two Nags , Seem'd ridden by Hags , And disus'd to Fatigue , could not bear it . Tho' Sir J --- , for their Sakes , Made 'em lean as two Rakes , Jog down to the Point to receive 'em . And from thence to proceed With this Irroquois Breed , And at some Geneva Ken leave 'em . 'Twas done as 'twas order'd , And his Horses half murder'd , With much ado dragg'd 'em all thither ; Where they Tippled and Roar'd , 'Till like Hogs they all Snor'd , And laid down and Kennel'd together . From thence when the Knight Had giv'n 'em a sighed Of each Rampart , and Bulwark , and For The Stage Caravan , Brought 'em hither each Man , To view both the City and Court . The first of their Rambles Was to visit the Shambles , As soon as Her Majesty's Drummers , At the Merchant's Expense , For they had no Pence , Had Saluted the Royal New-comers . But , Heav'ns ! how they star'd , To see how the Cits far'd On such Plenty of Flesh , Fish and Fowl : And wish'd one and all , They might have Leaden-Hall In lieu of the Realms they control . To the Tower of London Hence the Potentates run down For a sighed of our Arsenal Royal : And were told all those Arms Were to keep 'em from Harms , Of which they would soon have a Trial . Should the French Man but dare Attack 'em in War , Or insult 'em by way of Invasion , Those Guns and those Mortars Wou'd make 'em catch Tartars , And sneak off upon every Occasion . In the next Place each Soul , Went to Hockly in the Hold , Where the Bears and the fierce Gladiators Gave the Monarchs a sighed , Of the Force and the Might Of such Raw-bon'd and Termagant Creatures . After Bedlam and Gresham , Two Mad Houses , God bless 'em , Had expos'd what each College cou'd show ; And the Exchange and Guildhall , With the Dome of St. Paul , Was survey'd both above and below . The Pink of good Breeding , Of Speaking and Reading , Conducted 'em thro' the Pellmell , To St. James his fam'd Court , Bright Vertue's Resort , And the Place in which ANNA do's dwell . Great ANNA , that Queen , Who to all , by whom seen , Extends a Compassionate feeling , And Commiserates much The Misfortunes of such Who to Justice and Her are appealing . They no sooner had told How Adventurous and Bold They would be for Her Majesty's sake ; What Wonders they'd do , As faithful and true , They thee side of Great Britain wou'd take . If the Queen of Her Grace Wou'd but join with their Raze , To recover their Birthrights from France : And assert but a Cause , Her Religion and Laws Wou'd induce her great Soul to advance : But Aghast , and Amaz'd , At the Splendour they prais'd Of every Room they were shown . They were kindly dismiss'd , When her Hand they had Kiss'd , And presented their Gifts with their own : Which were such as before No Prince from Home boar , As a sign of Respect for another ; Since * Belts made of Beads Are to mean for Crown'd Heads , Tho' they make such a Noise and a Pother . * Belts of Wampum , a Name for their Coin. Their Audience thus done , Each Mother's Black Son In his Mantle of Read return'd Home , To consider and cast Up the Honours were passed With those that were next Day to come . When the Blue Coat Boys came In Respect to their Fame , To invite the Four Warriors to Supper ; With which they comply'd , To make out they'd no Pride , Which was but convenient and proper . To my Lord's Grace of Cant. Soon after they went , To hear the Church Litany read : But tho' it appears It might strike on their Ears , It never struck into their Head. Since 'twas no great Matter , That they cross'd o'er the Water To go to the Chapel to Pray'r ; For tho' my good Lord Can teach Men Gods Word , They return'd just as Wise as they were . From hence to both Stages The two brace of Sages , Their Habit and Persons expos'd : Where they just as much knew As at Hyde-Park Review , Which all their Discovers clos'd . No Prince but the ------ , E'er Journeyed so far , O'er so many thousand Leagues reckon'd ; And he must give place To this Traveling Raze , And tho' he came First , must be Second . Since no one brought less Of Wealth , Knowledge and Dress Than these who from India are come , And no one before Return'd from our Shore With so little Advantages Home . [ ? ] by W Wise in Fetter-Lane , Fleetstreet . 1710. The Royal Strangers Ramble , Or , The Remarkable Lives , Customs , and Character of the Four Indian Kings : With the manner of their Daily Pastimes , Humours , and Behaviours since their first Landing in England . Render'd into Pleasant and Familiar Verse . Written by a Person of Quality . Enter'd in the Hall Book of the Company of Stationers , pursuant to and Act of Parliament . FOur Monarchs of Worth , From their Kingdoms set forth , Without Hose or Shoes to their Feet ; In order to know How Affairs did here go , And of Things of Importance to Treat . They no sooner approach'd P ----- h , but were Coach'd In the G ----- rs old tatter'd Chariot . That drawn by two Nags , Seem'd ridden by Hags , And disus'd to Fatigue , could not bear it . Tho' Sir J --- , for their Sakes , Made 'em lean as two Rakes , Jog down to the Point to receive 'em . And from thence to proceed With this Irroquois Breed , And at some Geneva Ken leave 'em . 'Twas done as 'twas order'd , And his Horses half murder'd , With much ado dragg'd 'em all thither ; Where they Tippled and Roar'd , 'Till like Hogs they all Snor'd , And laid down and Kennel'd together . From thence when the Knight Had giv'n 'em a sighed Of each Rampart , and Bulwark , and For The Stage Caravan , Brought 'em hither each Man , To view both the City and Court . The first of their Rambles Was to visit the Shambles , As soon as Her Majesty's Drummers , At the Merchant's Expense , For they had no Pence , Had Saluted the Royal New-comers . But , Heav'ns ! how they star'd , To see how the Cits far'd On such Plenty of Flesh , Fish and Fowl : And wish'd one and all , They might have Leaden-Hall In lieu of the Realms they control . To the Tower of London Hence the Potentates run down For a sighed of our Arsenal Royal : And were told all those Arms Were to keep 'em from Harms , Of which they would soon have a Trial . Should the French Man but dare Attack 'em in War , Or insult 'em by way of Invasion , Those Guns and those Mortars Wou'd make 'em catch Tartars , And sneak off upon every Occasion . In the next Place each Soul , Went to Hockly in the Hold , Where the Bears and the fierce Gladiators Gave the Monarchs a sighed , Of the Force and the Might Of such Raw-bon'd and Termagant Creatures . After Bedlam and Gresham , Two Mad Houses , God bless 'em , Had expos'd what each College cou'd show ; And the Exchange and Guildhall , With the Dome of St. Paul , Was survey'd both above and below . The Pink of good Breeding , Of Speaking and Reading , Conducted 'em thro' the Pellmell , To St. James his fam'd Court , Bright Vertue's Resort , And the Place in which ANNA do's dwell . Great ANNA , that Queen , Who to all , by whom seen , Extends a Compassionate feeling , And Commiserates much The Misfortunes of such Who to Justice and Her are appealing . They no sooner had told How Adventurous and Bold They would be for Her Majesty's sake ; What Wonders they'd do , As faithful and true , They thee side of Great Britain wou'd take . If the Queen of Her Grace Wou'd but join with their Raze , To recover their Birthrights from France : And assert but a Cause , Her Religion and Laws Wou'd induce her great Soul to advance : But Aghast , and Amaz'd , At the Splendour they prais'd Of every Room they were shown . They were kindly dismiss'd , When her Hand they had Kiss'd , And presented their Gifts with their own : Which were such as before No Prince from Home boar , As a sign of Respect for another ; Since * Belts made of Beads Are to mean for Crown'd Heads , Tho' they make such a Noise and a Pother . * Belts of Wampum , a Name for their Coin. Their Audience thus done , Each Mother's Black Son In his Mantle of Read return'd Home , To consider and cast Up the Honours were passed With those that were next Day to come . When the Blue Coat Boys came In Respect to their Fame , To invite the Four Warriors to Supper ; With which they comply'd , To make out they'd no Pride , Which was but convenient and proper . To my Lord's Grace of Cant. Soon after they went , To hear the Church Litany read : But tho' it appears It might strike on their Ears , It never struck into their Head. Since 'twas no great Matter , That they cross'd o'er the Water To go to the Chapel to Pray'r ; For tho' my good Lord Can teach Men Gods Word , They return'd just as Wise as they were . From hence to both Stages The two brace of Sages , Their Habit and Persons expos'd : Where they just as much knew As at Hyde-Park Review , Which all their Discovers clos'd . No Prince but the ------ , E'er Journeyed so far , O'er so many thousand Leagues reckon'd ; And he must give place To this Traveling Raze , And tho' he came First , must be Second . Since no one brought less Of Wealth , Knowledge and Dress Than these who from India are come , And no one before Return'd from our Shore With so little Advantages Home . [ ? ] by W Wise in Fetter-Lane , Fleetstreet . 1710. 