A sweet Sonnet , wherein the Lover exclaimeth against Fortune for the loss of his Ladies Favour , almost passed hope to get it again , and in the end receives a comfortable answer , and attains his desire , as may here appear . The Tune is , Fortune my Foe . The Lovers Complaint for the loss of his Love . FOrtune my Foe why dost thou frown on me ? And will thy favours never better he ? Wilt thou I say forever breed my pain , And wilt thou not restore my joys again . Fortune hath wrought my grief & great annoy , Fortune hath falsely stolen my Love away , My love and joy whose sighed did make me glad , Such great misfortunes never young man had . Had Fortune took my treasure and my store , Fortune had never griev'd me half so soar , But taking her whereon my heart did stay , Fortune thereby hath took my life away . Far worse than death my life I led in woe , With b [ i ] tter thoughts still tossed too and from , Oh cruel Chance thou breeder of my pain , Take life , or else restore my love again . In vain I sighs , in vain I wail and weep , In vain mine eyes refrain from quiet sleep , In vain I shed my tears both night and day , In vain my love my sorrows do bewray . My love does not my piteous plaint espy , Nor feels my love what gripping grief I try : Full well may I false fortune's deeds reprove Fortune that so unkindly keeps my love . Where should I seek or search my love to find , When fortune fleets and wavers as the wind : Sometime aloft , sometime again below , Thus tottering fortune tottereth too and from . Then will I leave my love in fortune's hands , My dearest love in most unconstant bans , And only serve the sorrows due to me , Sorrow hereafter thou shalt my Mistress be . And only joy , that sometime conquers Kings , Fortune that rules on earth , & earthly things , So that alone I live not in this woe , For many more hath fortune served so . No man alive can fortune's spite withstand , With wisdom , skill , or mighty strength of hand In midst of mirth she brings bitter moan , And woe to me that hath her hatred known . If wisdoms eyes blind fortune had but seen , Then had my Love , my Love , for ever been : Then love farewell , though fortune favour thee , No fortune frail shall ever conquer me . The Ladies Comfortable and pleasant Answer . AH silly soul , art thou so soar afraid ? Mourn not my dear , nor be not so dismayed , Fortune cannot with all her power and skill , Enforce my heart to think thee any ill . Blame not thy chance , nor envy at thy choice , No cause thou hast to curse but to rejoice , Fortune shall not thy joy and love deprive , If by my love it may remain alive . Receive therefore thy life again to thee , Thy life and love shall not be lost by me ; And while thy heart upon thy life do stay , Fortune shall never steal the same away . Live thou in bliss , and banish death to Hell , All careful thoughts see thou from thee expel ; As thou does wish , thy love agrees to be , For proof whereof behold I come to thee . In vain therefore do neither wail nor weep , In vain therefore break not thy quiet sleep , Waste not in vain thy time in sorrow so , For why thy love delights to ease thy woe . Full well thy love thy privy pangs does see , And soon thy love will send to succour thee , though well thou mayest false fortune's deeds reprove Yet cannot fortune keep away thy love . Nor will thy love on fortune's back abide , Whose fickle wheel does often slip aside , And never think that fortune bears sway , If virtue watch , and will not her obey . Pluck up thy heart , suppressed with brinish tears , Torment me not , but take away thy fears ; Thy Mistress mind brooks no unconstant bans Much less to live in ruling fortune's hands . Though mighty Kings by fortune get the soil , Losing thereby their travel and their toil ; Though fortune be to them a cruel foe , Fortune shall not make me to serve thee so . For fortune's spite thou needest not care a pin , For thou thereby shall never lose nor win ; If faithful love and favour I do find , My recompense shall not remain behind . Die not in fear , nor live in discontent , Be thou not slave , where never blood was meant , Revive again , to faint thou hast no need , The less afraid , the better thou shalt speed . A sweet Sonnet , wherein the Lover exclaimeth against Fortune for the loss of his Ladies Favour , almost passed hope to get it again , and in the end receives a comfortable answer , and attains his desire , as may here appear . The Tune is , Fortune my Foe . The Lovers Complaint for the loss of his Love . FOrtune my Foe why dost thou frown on me ? And will thy favours never better he ? Wilt thou I say forever breed my pain , And wilt thou not restore my joys again . Fortune hath wrought my grief & great annoy , Fortune hath falsely stolen my Love away , My love and joy whose sighed did make me glad , Such great misfortunes never young man had . Had Fortune took my treasure and my store , Fortune had never griev'd me half so soar , But taking her whereon my heart did stay , Fortune thereby hath took my life away . Far worse than death my life I led in woe , With b [ i ] tter thoughts still tossed too and from , Oh cruel Chance thou breeder of my pain , Take life , or else restore my love again . In vain I sighs , in vain I wail and weep , In vain mine eyes refrain from quiet sleep , In vain I shed my tears both night and day , In vain my love my sorrows do bewray . My love does not my piteous plaint espy , Nor feels my love what gripping grief I try : Full well may I false fortune's deeds reprove Fortune that so unkindly keeps my love . Where should I seek or search my love to find , When fortune fleets and wavers as the wind : Sometime aloft , sometime again below , Thus tottering fortune tottereth too and from . Then will I leave my love in fortune's hands , My dearest love in most unconstant bans , And only serve the sorrows due to me , Sorrow hereafter thou shalt my Mistress be . And only joy , that sometime conquers Kings , Fortune that rules on earth , & earthly things , So that alone I live not in this woe , For many more hath fortune served so . No man alive can fortune's spite withstand , With wisdom , skill , or mighty strength of hand In midst of mirth she brings bitter moan , And woe to me that hath her hatred known . If wisdoms eyes blind fortune had but seen , Then had my Love , my Love , for ever been : Then love farewell , though fortune favour thee , No fortune frail shall ever conquer me . The Ladies Comfortable and pleasant Answer . AH silly soul , art thou so soar afraid ? Mourn not my dear , nor be not so dismayed , Fortune cannot with all her power and skill , Enforce my heart to think thee any ill . Blame not thy chance , nor envy at thy choice , No cause thou hast to curse but to rejoice , Fortune shall not thy joy and love deprive , If by my love it may remain alive . Receive therefore thy life again to thee , Thy life and love shall not be lost by me ; And while thy heart upon thy life do stay , Fortune shall never steal the same away . Live thou in bliss , and banish death to Hell , All careful thoughts see thou from thee expel ; As thou does wish , thy love agrees to be , For proof whereof behold I come to thee . In vain therefore do neither wail nor weep , In vain therefore break not thy quiet sleep , Waste not in vain thy time in sorrow so , For why thy love delights to ease thy woe . Full well thy love thy privy pangs does see , And soon thy love will send to succour thee , though well thou mayest false fortune's deeds reprove Yet cannot fortune keep away thy love . Nor will thy love on fortune's back abide , Whose fickle wheel does often slip aside , And never think that fortune bears sway , If virtue watch , and will not her obey . Pluck up thy heart , suppressed with brinish tears , Torment me not , but take away thy fears ; Thy Mistress mind brooks no unconstant bans Much less to live in ruling fortune's hands . Though mighty Kings by fortune get the soil , Losing thereby their travel and their toil ; Though fortune be to them a cruel foe , Fortune shall not make me to serve thee so . For fortune's spite thou needest not care a pin , For thou thereby shall never lose nor win ; If faithful love and favour I do find , My recompense shall not remain behind . Die not in fear , nor live in discontent , Be thou not slave , where never blood was meant , Revive again , to faint thou hast no need , The less afraid , the better thou shalt speed . 