The Wanton Wife of BATH . Tune of Flying Fume . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write , Who did in pleasure spend her Days , in many a found Delight , Upon a Time soar Sick she was , and at the length did die , Her Soul at last at Heaven Gates , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate , who knocketh here quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner Adam said , and here no Place shall have , Alas , for you good Sir she said , now gip you doting Knave , I will come in , in spite she said , of all such Churls as thee , Thou was the Cause of all our Woe , our Pain and Misery , And first broke God's Commandments , in pleasure of thy Wife , When Adam herd her tell this Tale , he ran away for Life , Then down came Jacob to the Gate , and bids her pack to Hell , Thou false deceiver why said she , thou mayest be there full well . For thou deceiv'd thy Father dear , and thine own Brother too , Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado , She knock'd again with might & main , and Lot he chides her straight , Why then quoth she thou drunken Ass , who bids thee hear to wait , With thy 2 Daughters thou didst lie , on them 2 Bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chaf'd , against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding Notes , Alas fine Minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting Throats , Good Lord how Judith blush'd for shame when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go , Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife , You were more kind , good sir said she unto Uriah's Wife . And when you caus'd you Servant brave in Battle to be slave , Thou causedst then more strife than I , who would come here so fain , The Woman's Mad , said Solomon , that thou dost taunt a King , Not half so mad as you she said , I know in many a thing , Thou hadst 700 Wives at once , For whom thou didst provide , And for all this 300 Whores , thou didst maintain beside . And these made thee forsake thy God , and worship Stocks and Stones , Beside the Charge they put to thee too , in breeding of young Bones . Hadst not thou been beside thy Wits , thou would'st not thus have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this Place have enter'd . I never herd quoth Jonas then , so vile a Scold as this , Thou whoreson run away quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas Women's Tongues of Aspen Leaves are made , Thou unbelieving Wretch quoth she , all is not true that's said , When Marry Magdalen herd this , she came unto the Gate , Quoth she good Woman you must think upon your former State . No Sinners enters in this Place , quoth Mary Magdalen , 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again , You for your honesty quoth she , should once be ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the Earth , It is not by your Occupation , you are become Divine , I hope my Soul in Christ's Passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto this Wife he said , Except thou shake thy Sins away , thou here shall be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , altho' a lewd Desire , How thou didst persecute God's Church with Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the Gate he hies , Found Fool quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with Cries . Peter said she content thyself , for Mercy may be wone , I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done , When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful Soul , who trembled at his sighed , Of him for Mercy she did crave , quoth he thou hast refus'd My profer'd Grace and Mercy both , and much my Name abus'd , Soar I have sinned Oh Lord she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep , unto thy Flock again , Oh Lord my God I will amend , my former wicked Vice , The Thief at these poor silly Words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , said Christ were known to thee , But of the same in any wise , not yet one Word did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord ( quoth she ) most lewdly did I Live , But yet the loving Father did , his prodigal Son forgive . And I forgive thy Soul he said , through thy repenting Cry , Come therefore enter into my Joys , I will not thee deny . London : Printed for J.D. at the Red-Lyon on London-Bridge . The Wanton Wife of BATH . Tune of Flying Fume . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write , Who did in pleasure spend her Days , in many a found Delight , Upon a Time soar Sick she was , and at the length did die , Her Soul at last at Heaven Gates , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate , who knocketh here quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner Adam said , and here no Place shall have , Alas , for you good Sir she said , now gip you doting Knave , I will come in , in spite she said , of all such Churls as thee , Thou was the Cause of all our Woe , our Pain and Misery , And first broke God's Commandments , in pleasure of thy Wife , When Adam herd her tell this Tale , he ran away for Life , Then down came Jacob to the Gate , and bids her pack to Hell , Thou false deceiver why said she , thou mayest be there full well . For thou deceiv'd thy Father dear , and thine own Brother too , Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado , She knock'd again with might & main , and Lot he chides her straight , Why then quoth she thou drunken Ass , who bids thee hear to wait , With thy 2 Daughters thou didst lie , on them 2 Bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chaf'd , against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding Notes , Alas fine Minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting Throats , Good Lord how Judith blush'd for shame when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go , Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife , You were more kind , good sir said she unto Uriah's Wife . And when you caus'd you Servant brave in Battle to be slave , Thou causedst then more strife than I , who would come here so fain , The Woman's Mad , said Solomon , that thou dost taunt a King , Not half so mad as you she said , I know in many a thing , Thou hadst 700 Wives at once , For whom thou didst provide , And for all this 300 Whores , thou didst maintain beside . And these made thee forsake thy God , and worship Stocks and Stones , Beside the Charge they put to thee too , in breeding of young Bones . Hadst not thou been beside thy Wits , thou would'st not thus have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this Place have enter'd . I never herd quoth Jonas then , so vile a Scold as this , Thou whoreson run away quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas Women's Tongues of Aspen Leaves are made , Thou unbelieving Wretch quoth she , all is not true that's said , When Marry Magdalen herd this , she came unto the Gate , Quoth she good Woman you must think upon your former State . No Sinners enters in this Place , quoth Mary Magdalen , 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again , You for your honesty quoth she , should once be ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the Earth , It is not by your Occupation , you are become Divine , I hope my Soul in Christ's Passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto this Wife he said , Except thou shake thy Sins away , thou here shall be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , altho' a lewd Desire , How thou didst persecute God's Church with Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the Gate he hies , Found Fool quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with Cries . Peter said she content thyself , for Mercy may be wone , I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done , When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful Soul , who trembled at his sighed , Of him for Mercy she did crave , quoth he thou hast refus'd My profer'd Grace and Mercy both , and much my Name abus'd , Soar I have sinned Oh Lord she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep , unto thy Flock again , Oh Lord my God I will amend , my former wicked Vice , The Thief at these poor silly Words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , said Christ were known to thee , But of the same in any wise , not yet one Word did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord ( quoth she ) most lewdly did I Live , But yet the loving Father did , his prodigal Son forgive . And I forgive thy Soul he said , through thy repenting Cry , Come therefore enter into my Joys , I will not thee deny . London : Printed for J.D. at the Red-Lyon on London-Bridge . 