The Wanton WIFE of BATH . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , ( As Chaucer he does write ) Who did in pleasure spend her days In many a found delight . Upon a time soar sick she was , And at the length did die , Her soul arriv'd at heaven's gate , And there knock'd heartily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he ? I am the wife of Bath , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , And here no place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good sir , she said , Now trip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite she said , Of all such churls as thee : Thou wer't the cause of all our woe , Our pain and misery . And first broke God's commandment , In pleasure with thy wife . When Adam herd her tell that tale , He ran away for life . Then down came Jacob to the gate , Who bid her pack to hell . You false deceiver , why , said she , You might be there as well . For you deceiv'd your father dear , And your own brother too . So away went Jacob presently , And made no more ado . She knock'd again with might and main , How now quoth she , thou doting ass , Who bid thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , On them two bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chaste Against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh there , quoth Judith then , With such shrill sounding notes ? This noise , fine minx , thou cannot bear , Quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blush'd for shame , When she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , Unto the gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks there so loud , And causeth all this strife ? You were more kind , good sir , said she , Unto Uriah's wife . When thou didst cause thy servant In battle to be slave ; You caused then more strife than I , Who would come here so fain . The woman's mad , quoth Solomon , Thus for to taunt a King ! Not half so mad as you , said she , I know in many things . You had seven hundred wives , she said , For whom that [ oh ] u didst provide ; Yet for all this three hundred whores , Thou didst maintain beside . And these made thee forsake thy God , And worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to In breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , Thou wouldst not thus have ventur'd ; And therefore I do marvel much How thou this place has enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a scold as this : You whoreson run away quoth she , Thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , women's tongues Of aspen leaves are made . You disbelieving wretch , she said , All is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd her chafe , She came unto the gate ; Quoth she , good woman , you must think Upon your former state . No sinner enter in this place , Quoth Mary Magdalen . 'Twere ill for you , fair mistress mild , She answer'd her again . You for your honesty , said she , Should once been ston'd to death , Had not our Saviour Christ came by , And wrote [ upon ] the earth . It is not thro' your occupation You are become divine : My soul in Christ's passion Will be as safe as thine . Then rose the good apostle Paul , Unto the wife he cry'd , Except you shake your sins away , Thou here must be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , All thro' a lewd desire ; How thou didst prosecute God's church , With wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , And to the gate he hies ; Found fool , said he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , she cries , content thyself , For mercy may be wone ; I never did deny my Lord , As thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , With heavenly angels bright , He came unto this sinful soul , Who trembled at the sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave . Quoth he , Thou hast refus'd My proffer'd grace and mercy both , And much my name abus'd . Sure have I sinn'd , Oh Lord , she said , And spent my time in vain ; But bring me like a wandering sheep Into thy fold again . O Lord my God I will amend My former wicked vice , The thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My laws and my commandments , Said Christ , were known to thee , But of the same in any wise Not yet a whit did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord , she said , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving father did The prodigal son forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , Thro' thy repenting cry ; Come thou therefore into my rest , I will not thee deny . The Wanton WIFE of BATH . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , ( As Chaucer he does write ) Who did in pleasure spend her days In many a found delight . Upon a time soar sick she was , And at the length did die , Her soul arriv'd at heaven's gate , And there knock'd heartily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he ? I am the wife of Bath , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , And here no place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good sir , she said , Now trip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite she said , Of all such churls as thee : Thou wer't the cause of all our woe , Our pain and misery . And first broke God's commandment , In pleasure with thy wife . When Adam herd her tell that tale , He ran away for life . Then down came Jacob to the gate , Who bid her pack to hell . You false deceiver , why , said she , You might be there as well . For you deceiv'd your father dear , And your own brother too . So away went Jacob presently , And made no more ado . She knock'd again with might and main , How now quoth she , thou doting ass , Who bid thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , On them two bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chaste Against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh there , quoth Judith then , With such shrill sounding notes ? This noise , fine minx , thou cannot bear , Quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blush'd for shame , When she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , Unto the gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks there so loud , And causeth all this strife ? You were more kind , good sir , said she , Unto Uriah's wife . When thou didst cause thy servant In battle to be slave ; You caused then more strife than I , Who would come here so fain . The woman's mad , quoth Solomon , Thus for to taunt a King ! Not half so mad as you , said she , I know in many things . You had seven hundred wives , she said , For whom that [ oh ] u didst provide ; Yet for all this three hundred whores , Thou didst maintain beside . And these made thee forsake thy God , And worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to In breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , Thou wouldst not thus have ventur'd ; And therefore I do marvel much How thou this place has enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a scold as this : You whoreson run away quoth she , Thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , women's tongues Of aspen leaves are made . You disbelieving wretch , she said , All is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd her chafe , She came unto the gate ; Quoth she , good woman , you must think Upon your former state . No sinner enter in this place , Quoth Mary Magdalen . 'Twere ill for you , fair mistress mild , She answer'd her again . You for your honesty , said she , Should once been ston'd to death , Had not our Saviour Christ came by , And wrote [ upon ] the earth . It is not thro' your occupation You are become divine : My soul in Christ's passion Will be as safe as thine . Then rose the good apostle Paul , Unto the wife he cry'd , Except you shake your sins away , Thou here must be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , All thro' a lewd desire ; How thou didst prosecute God's church , With wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , And to the gate he hies ; Found fool , said he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , she cries , content thyself , For mercy may be wone ; I never did deny my Lord , As thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , With heavenly angels bright , He came unto this sinful soul , Who trembled at the sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave . Quoth he , Thou hast refus'd My proffer'd grace and mercy both , And much my name abus'd . Sure have I sinn'd , Oh Lord , she said , And spent my time in vain ; But bring me like a wandering sheep Into thy fold again . O Lord my God I will amend My former wicked vice , The thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My laws and my commandments , Said Christ , were known to thee , But of the same in any wise Not yet a whit did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord , she said , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving father did The prodigal son forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , Thro' thy repenting cry ; Come thou therefore into my rest , I will not thee deny . 