The Quakers Prophesy : Or Strange and Wondered News from Spittle-Fields , Humbly Dedicated to the Queen of Poland . To the Tune of , Then Covetousness out of England will Run . I . Come all my kind Neighbours and listen awhile , I'le sing you a song that will make you to smile : When all this comes to pass as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . II When Oliver , and Shaftsbury comes to life again , And are to be seen upon Salesbury plain : When all this is true as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . III . When Russel , and Hone this news they do hear , It will make College and Walcot to stare : Then Rouse will sware at them as sure as a gun , When Presbyter Jack out of England is run . IIII . Sir Thomas Armstrong he was a great fool , But Sq. Catch his Courage did cool : If that he comes again as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . V. Curtis , and Care , are two very great Knave's , One the profit of Labels they do live brave : Tell they are hang'd as sure as a gun , Then Shaftsbury in Hell will say nothing but mum . VI . If Bradshaw , and Hueson were again at White-hall , This ten to one against King they wou'd brall : And if Essex , were here as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . VII . When Hueson the cobbler mends shoes for whiggs state , Then Phenatick Preaching will something abate : When these things comes to pass as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . LONDON , Printed for Absalon Chamberlain , in Red-bull Play-house-yard over against the Pound in St. John-street ; near Clerken-well-green . The Quakers Prophesy : Or Strange and Wondered News from Spittle-Fields , Humbly Dedicated to the Queen of Poland . To the Tune of , Then Covetousness out of England will Run . I . Come all my kind Neighbours and listen awhile , I'le sing you a song that will make you to smile : When all this comes to pass as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . II When Oliver , and Shaftsbury comes to life again , And are to be seen upon Salesbury plain : When all this is true as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . III . When Russel , and Hone this news they do hear , It will make College and Walcot to stare : Then Rouse will sware at them as sure as a gun , When Presbyter Jack out of England is run . IIII . Sir Thomas Armstrong he was a great fool , But Sq. Catch his Courage did cool : If that he comes again as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . V. Curtis , and Care , are two very great Knave's , One the profit of Labels they do live brave : Tell they are hang'd as sure as a gun , Then Shaftsbury in Hell will say nothing but mum . VI . If Bradshaw , and Hueson were again at White-hall , This ten to one against King they wou'd brall : And if Essex , were here as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . VII . When Hueson the cobbler mends shoes for whiggs state , Then Phenatick Preaching will something abate : When these things comes to pass as sure as a gun , Then Presbyter Jack out of England will run . LONDON , Printed for Absalon Chamberlain , in Red-bull Play-house-yard over against the Pound in St. John-street ; near Clerken-well-green . 