A Third Merry DITTY OF COLD and RAW : BEING The Fierce Encounter between Roger the Plowman , and the bonny Scot , who met with him when he was at a Fair with the Farmers Daughter . To the same Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. This may be printed , R.P. COld and Raw you can't forget , the Maid that sold the Barley , Who the Scotchman did Outwit , one Winter's morning early : Then listen now and i'le unfold a third and pleasant Story , How he beset her for his Gold , but it proved young Rogers Glory . He was Riding to a Fair , with Kate his Master's Daughter , When the Scot did meet them there , but mark what follow'd after : When as the Scot the Lass espy'd , he Rav'd at her out of measure , Give me my Purse and Gold , he cry'd , you Rob'd me of all my Treasure . Envy was in Jockey's Face , but yet that no ways daunts her , Kate with a most Noble Grace , returns him straight this Answer : I never stole no Purse from you , cou'd I be so much your Master ? Be gone and make no more adu , or else I will lay you faster . Now to Roger she made known , how often he did woe her , When he met her all alone , in order to undo her : Uds-zooks , quoth Roger , did he so ? and wou'd he have wrong'd my honey ? Then by my faith , before I go , this Cudgel shall pay the Money . Jockey he had by his side , a true and trusty Rapier . Therefore with his Haughty P [ r ] idem , at Roger he did vapour : Which did his Spirits so provoke , that anger and blows increases , His Rapier with a bang he broke , that shiver'd in twenty pieces , Yet stout Roger did not mean of Life once to deprive him , But about the Fair and Green , he like a Stag did drive him : At length he beg'd his pardon there of Katy the Farmers Daughter , It was the Sport of all the Fair . there never was greater [ WORSER ] aughter . By all Men and Women too , stout Roger was commended , Further still their love to show , the Quarrel being ended , A Rule was made through all the town , for Roger's sake to be Merry , And drank his Health in Liquour brown , nay , likewise in rich Canary . Then near Night they home wou'd ride and Roan was straight made ready , Horse and Man on e'ry side , as if a Lord and Lady : When coming to her Father dear , said they , he deserves to have her , Now ever since that time , we hear stout Roger is much in Favour . And belov'd at such a rate by Father , Friends , and Mother , That they vow'd he should have Kate , Uds-zooks , above all other ; Because he kept her safe from harm , and fear'd neither wind nor weather , And now they keep a worthy Farm , where they lovingly live together . Printed for J . Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . A Third Merry DITTY OF COLD and RAW : BEING The Fierce Encounter between Roger the Plowman , and the bonny Scot , who met with him when he was at a Fair with the Farmers Daughter . To the same Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. This may be printed , R.P. COld and Raw you can't forget , the Maid that sold the Barley , Who the Scotchman did Outwit , one Winter's morning early : Then listen now and i'le unfold a third and pleasant Story , How he beset her for his Gold , but it proved young Rogers Glory . He was Riding to a Fair , with Kate his Master's Daughter , When the Scot did meet them there , but mark what follow'd after : When as the Scot the Lass espy'd , he Rav'd at her out of measure , Give me my Purse and Gold , he cry'd , you Rob'd me of all my Treasure . Envy was in Jockey's Face , but yet that no ways daunts her , Kate with a most Noble Grace , returns him straight this Answer : I never stole no Purse from you , cou'd I be so much your Master ? Be gone and make no more adu , or else I will lay you faster . Now to Roger she made known , how often he did woe her , When he met her all alone , in order to undo her : Uds-zooks , quoth Roger , did he so ? and wou'd he have wrong'd my honey ? Then by my faith , before I go , this Cudgel shall pay the Money . Jockey he had by his side , a true and trusty Rapier . Therefore with his Haughty P [ r ] idem , at Roger he did vapour : Which did his Spirits so provoke , that anger and blows increases , His Rapier with a bang he broke , that shiver'd in twenty pieces , Yet stout Roger did not mean of Life once to deprive him , But about the Fair and Green , he like a Stag did drive him : At length he beg'd his pardon there of Katy the Farmers Daughter , It was the Sport of all the Fair . there never was greater [ WORSER ] aughter . By all Men and Women too , stout Roger was commended , Further still their love to show , the Quarrel being ended , A Rule was made through all the town , for Roger's sake to be Merry , And drank his Health in Liquour brown , nay , likewise in rich Canary . Then near Night they home wou'd ride and Roan was straight made ready , Horse and Man on e'ry side , as if a Lord and Lady : When coming to her Father dear , said they , he deserves to have her , Now ever since that time , we hear stout Roger is much in Favour . And belov'd at such a rate by Father , Friends , and Mother , That they vow'd he should have Kate , Uds-zooks , above all other ; Because he kept her safe from harm , and fear'd neither wind nor weather , And now they keep a worthy Farm , where they lovingly live together . Printed for J . Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 