THE Protestant Post-Boy . Containing all Public Transactions , Foreign and Domestic . From Saturday , February the 2d , to Tuesday , February the 5th , 17 11 12. LONDON , February the 5th . I Have often wonder'd at the Assurance of some Men , in aspiring to Places and Honours they were no ways equal to . For , certainly , as a Low-Station shades a Distinguishing-Merit ; so a Post of Eminence exposes a Superficial one . But then there is and Eclat in Grandeur which dazzles the Eyes of the Generality , and and Air of Haugh - tiness , which most People borrow from the Rate of the Post , or Distinction they are rank'd under , which passes with the Injudicious for solid Worth . These Opinionative People are not only to be found among the Great , properly so call'd , but there are likewise Tyrants over each other , in sup - pos'd Merit , and little Distinctions to be met with among Mechanics , on the Plains , and most re - tir'd Villages . I am the more fully convinc'd of this , since I read the following Tale among Ariosto's Bucolics , which I have pretty carefully imitated . A Country TALE . COLIN , a Raw , but Heady Swain , That tended Sheep upon the Plain , Scarce knew the Terms of Hoi-Ge-Ho , Or when the Team should Stop or Go , What Season's proper for to Plough , What Ground to Fallow , what to Sow , Or how to Cheapen , Fell , or Buy , Or any Parts of Husbandry ; Being once hir'd to Widow Scot , Who own'd much Land , and Farm'd to boot , Grew vain , and fancy'd he could do A Thousand Things he never knew : The stupid Louts amaz'd to see Colin advanc'd to such Degree , Cry'd out , Sure he is something more Than Country Volk do take him for . The cunning Yeomen smoak'd the Bite , And sneer'd the Widow's Want of Wit , And o'er a Cup of Nappy Ale Would crack a Jest and merry Tale Of Colin's Blunders and his Cheats , With many other pretty Feats ; How carelessly he us'd to keep His private Stock , and Parish Sheep , But rather than his private Stock Should want , he'd borrow from the Flock : Beside , how Colin once had been Thought Tardy , but set right again , It being his good Luck to keep A Dog that strongly smelled of Sheep , And when the Uproar first was herd , Poor Mouse was hang'd , and Colin clear'd . No sooner Colin settled was , But threw th' Old Servants out of Place ; Old Cid , the Hind , was first discharg'd , Who had the Rends and Fines enlarg'd ; Colin went briskly on below , The Widow seldom car'd to know Whate'er was done , so Gip and She Might have their Syrup and their Tea : This Gip , and ugly dowdy Jade , Whom Widow Scot familiar made , And had preferr'd from Milking-Pail , To Dress her Head , and Pin her Tail , Had stol'n away the Widow's Heart , That they could never be apar This Gip and Colin had combin'd To keep the Widow warm , and blind : The House thus modell'd , all Things went Swimming , and to their Heart's Content , And all was Colin's Management . Such great Concerns in Colin's Hand , Still often put him to the Stand ; He'd fain have kept some Servants in , T' have learn'd by them to Manage fine , They swore he trick'd , and would not join : So he was forc'd to ask Advice Of those he thought not very Wise . The Fences broke , made but one Field ; The Cattle dy'd for Want of Care ; And ev'ry Thing out of Repair : The Stock , both Quick and Dead , was sold , And Colin still kept all the Gold ; He took up Sums at Twelve per Cent , When all before at Five had lent ; But yet he , uncontroul'd , went on , And , with Success , be'ng harden'd grown , At Harvest turns off Carter John , And puts in James , a Parish Boy , A good Condition'd Youth , but Raw ; James Driving of and heavy Load , Thro' a strait Lane , and miry Road , Not knowing when to use his Whip , The Horses stand , then frisk and leap , And overset the Load of Wheat , That James was bruis'd in his Retrea The Village hooted when they found The Wheat so spoil'd , the Carter stunn'd ; They forthwith to the Widow went With , This is Colin's Managemen The Widow , frighted at the Cry , Begg'd they'd some present Help apply , And bid them haste for Carter John , The Man she must rely upon . Colin , with all his Scoundrel Crew , The Rabble's Rage and Village flew . LONDON , February the 5th . Yesterday the Second Troop of Guards was Re-view'd in Hide-Park , where the Duke of Northumberland was presented to it by the Duke of Ormond . There is no Opposition made to Mr. Walpool's Election for the Borough of Lyn-Regis , so that 'tis look'd upon as certain he will be chosen again . Last Thursday his Grace the Duke of Marlborough , with other Persons of Distinction , paid him a Vi - fit in the Tower ; and 'tis remarkable , that they were permitted to wear their Swords , as are all others that come to see him . Last Sunday arriv'd and Express from Ireland , Giving and Account of the Death of Lieutenant General Ingoldsby , who Died at his House in Dub - lin on Sunday the 19th of January last . We hear , That the Earl of Bridgewater , Son-in - law to the Duke of Marlborough , is order'd to re - move from his Lodgings at St. James's . SIR , I AM one that constantly Reads your Paper : And I cannot but take Notice , That you have quite devi - ated from the Entertainment which you promis'd the Town : You may remember that you told us , some Time since , upon the Resurrection of the Examiner , That you wou'd have and Eye to his Paper ; whereas , indeed you have let him pass , with all the Negligence imaginable , in the most absur'd and abominable Assertaions . In par - ticular , in one of his late Papers , he maliciously , and as foolishly affirms , That our late General frequently led the Army into such Dangers , ( I shall not stand just to repeat the Words ) that nothing but their own Courage , and Personal Bravery , cou'd have preserv'd them from a Defeat . Now , Sir , ( if you will take my Thoughts ) this is so easily answer'd , that , I believe , no one will offer to say , but that Caesar , when he pass'd the Rubicon , or Alex - ander the Granicus , led their Soldiers into Danger ; and we have and Old Proverb in England , which says , The more Danger the more Honour . But I think this malicious Author ought to be told , since he seems to under - stand very little of the Matter , That it is the Goodness of the General , and the Confidence that the Soldiers ( im - bib'd by Experience ) put in him , which inspires them with the Courage and Bravery , which he mentions to have brought them off . As and undeniable Instance of this , I'll give you the Words of One , whom I am pretty well assur'd both the Author of the Examiner , and his Friends , put Confidence enough in ; and that is their Old Friend the King of France , who , in the Year 1706 , after his shameful Defeat at Ramellies , by this abandon'd General , found himself necessitated to put the Duke de Vendosme at the Head of his Troops in Flanders , for the Reasons following , which was the Preamble of that General's Commission . Louis , etc 'Notwithstanding the continual Pro - 'gress of our Armies in Italy have made , under the 'Conduct of our Right Well-beloved Cousin , the 'Duke de Vendosme , since the Opening of the Cam - 'paign in 1702 , when we trusted him with the 'Command of our Troops , seem to invite us to 'leave him the Care of finishing the War ; yet 'the Necessity of putting at the Head of our are - 'mies in Flanders a General who may gain the Con - 'fidence of the Officers and Soldiers , and restore to the 'Troops that Spirit of Fortitude and Boldness so Na - 'tural to the French Nation , and the Knowledge we 'have , That no other is Capable to answer our Ex - 'pectations . Now it seems , on the quite contrary , that it is our Interest to Remove One in whom the Soldiers had alrea - dy plac'd and entire and unalterable Confidence . This convinces me , That they must certainly be the Friends of the French King , that raise such malicious Ob - jections against the Duke of Marlborough . It will be and Obligation , Sir , to some of your Admirers if this be inserted , submitting it to what Alteration you think fit . Yours , etc ADVERTISEMENT . THE RHAPSODY , which was first Publish'd on New-YearsDay , and which has been and will be continue - ed every Tuesday , Thursday , and Saturday , having met with En - couragement ; this is to give Notice , that the Author will go on with the most Curious Works of the Ancient Poets and Histori - ans , both Greek and Latin ; and also THE Protestant Post-Boy . Containing all Public Transactions , Foreign and Domestic . From Saturday , February the 2d , to Tuesday , February the 5th , 17 11 12. LONDON , February the 5th . I Have often wonder'd at the Assurance of some Men , in aspiring to Places and Honours they were no ways equal to . For , certainly , as a Low-Station shades a Distinguishing-Merit ; so a Post of Eminence exposes a Superficial one . But then there is and Eclat in Grandeur which dazzles the Eyes of the Generality , and and Air of Haugh - tiness , which most People borrow from the Rate of the Post , or Distinction they are rank'd under , which passes with the Injudicious for solid Worth . These Opinionative People are not only to be found among the Great , properly so call'd , but there are likewise Tyrants over each other , in sup - pos'd Merit , and little Distinctions to be met with among Mechanics , on the Plains , and most re - tir'd Villages . I am the more fully convinc'd of this , since I read the following Tale among Ariosto's Bucolics , which I have pretty carefully imitated . A Country TALE . COLIN , a Raw , but Heady Swain , That tended Sheep upon the Plain , Scarce knew the Terms of Hoi-Ge-Ho , Or when the Team should Stop or Go , What Season's proper for to Plough , What Ground to Fallow , what to Sow , Or how to Cheapen , Fell , or Buy , Or any Parts of Husbandry ; Being once hir'd to Widow Scot , Who own'd much Land , and Farm'd to boot , Grew vain , and fancy'd he could do A Thousand Things he never knew : The stupid Louts amaz'd to see Colin advanc'd to such Degree , Cry'd out , Sure he is something more Than Country Volk do take him for . The cunning Yeomen smoak'd the Bite , And sneer'd the Widow's Want of Wit , And o'er a Cup of Nappy Ale Would crack a Jest and merry Tale Of Colin's Blunders and his Cheats , With many other pretty Feats ; How carelessly he us'd to keep His private Stock , and Parish Sheep , But rather than his private Stock Should want , he'd borrow from the Flock : Beside , how Colin once had been Thought Tardy , but set right again , It being his good Luck to keep A Dog that strongly smelled of Sheep , And when the Uproar first was herd , Poor Mouse was hang'd , and Colin clear'd . No sooner Colin settled was , But threw th' Old Servants out of Place ; Old Cid , the Hind , was first discharg'd , Who had the Rends and Fines enlarg'd ; Colin went briskly on below , The Widow seldom car'd to know Whate'er was done , so Gip and She Might have their Syrup and their Tea : This Gip , and ugly dowdy Jade , Whom Widow Scot familiar made , And had preferr'd from Milking-Pail , To Dress her Head , and Pin her Tail , Had stol'n away the Widow's Heart , That they could never be apar This Gip and Colin had combin'd To keep the Widow warm , and blind : The House thus modell'd , all Things went Swimming , and to their Heart's Content , And all was Colin's Management . Such great Concerns in Colin's Hand , Still often put him to the Stand ; He'd fain have kept some Servants in , T' have learn'd by them to Manage fine , They swore he trick'd , and would not join : So he was forc'd to ask Advice Of those he thought not very Wise . The Fences broke , made but one Field ; The Cattle dy'd for Want of Care ; And ev'ry Thing out of Repair : The Stock , both Quick and Dead , was sold , And Colin still kept all the Gold ; He took up Sums at Twelve per Cent , When all before at Five had lent ; But yet he , uncontroul'd , went on , And , with Success , be'ng harden'd grown , At Harvest turns off Carter John , And puts in James , a Parish Boy , A good Condition'd Youth , but Raw ; James Driving of and heavy Load , Thro' a strait Lane , and miry Road , Not knowing when to use his Whip , The Horses stand , then frisk and leap , And overset the Load of Wheat , That James was bruis'd in his Retrea The Village hooted when they found The Wheat so spoil'd , the Carter stunn'd ; They forthwith to the Widow went With , This is Colin's Managemen The Widow , frighted at the Cry , Begg'd they'd some present Help apply , And bid them haste for Carter John , The Man she must rely upon . Colin , with all his Scoundrel Crew , The Rabble's Rage and Village flew . LONDON , February the 5th . Yesterday the Second Troop of Guards was Re-view'd in Hide-Park , where the Duke of Northumberland was presented to it by the Duke of Ormond . There is no Opposition made to Mr. Walpool's Election for the Borough of Lyn-Regis , so that 'tis look'd upon as certain he will be chosen again . Last Thursday his Grace the Duke of Marlborough , with other Persons of Distinction , paid him a Vi - fit in the Tower ; and 'tis remarkable , that they were permitted to wear their Swords , as are all others that come to see him . Last Sunday arriv'd and Express from Ireland , Giving and Account of the Death of Lieutenant General Ingoldsby , who Died at his House in Dub - lin on Sunday the 19th of January last . We hear , That the Earl of Bridgewater , Son-in - law to the Duke of Marlborough , is order'd to re - move from his Lodgings at St. James's . SIR , I AM one that constantly Reads your Paper : And I cannot but take Notice , That you have quite devi - ated from the Entertainment which you promis'd the Town : You may remember that you told us , some Time since , upon the Resurrection of the Examiner , That you wou'd have and Eye to his Paper ; whereas , indeed you have let him pass , with all the Negligence imaginable , in the most absur'd and abominable Assertaions . In par - ticular , in one of his late Papers , he maliciously , and as foolishly affirms , That our late General frequently led the Army into such Dangers , ( I shall not stand just to repeat the Words ) that nothing but their own Courage , and Personal Bravery , cou'd have preserv'd them from a Defeat . Now , Sir , ( if you will take my Thoughts ) this is so easily answer'd , that , I believe , no one will offer to say , but that Caesar , when he pass'd the Rubicon , or Alex - ander the Granicus , led their Soldiers into Danger ; and we have and Old Proverb in England , which says , The more Danger the more Honour . But I think this malicious Author ought to be told , since he seems to under - stand very little of the Matter , That it is the Goodness of the General , and the Confidence that the Soldiers ( im - bib'd by Experience ) put in him , which inspires them with the Courage and Bravery , which he mentions to have brought them off . As and undeniable Instance of this , I'll give you the Words of One , whom I am pretty well assur'd both the Author of the Examiner , and his Friends , put Confidence enough in ; and that is their Old Friend the King of France , who , in the Year 1706 , after his shameful Defeat at Ramellies , by this abandon'd General , found himself necessitated to put the Duke de Vendosme at the Head of his Troops in Flanders , for the Reasons following , which was the Preamble of that General's Commission . Louis , etc 'Notwithstanding the continual Pro - 'gress of our Armies in Italy have made , under the 'Conduct of our Right Well-beloved Cousin , the 'Duke de Vendosme , since the Opening of the Cam - 'paign in 1702 , when we trusted him with the 'Command of our Troops , seem to invite us to 'leave him the Care of finishing the War ; yet 'the Necessity of putting at the Head of our are - 'mies in Flanders a General who may gain the Con - 'fidence of the Officers and Soldiers , and restore to the 'Troops that Spirit of Fortitude and Boldness so Na - 'tural to the French Nation , and the Knowledge we 'have , That no other is Capable to answer our Ex - 'pectations . Now it seems , on the quite contrary , that it is our Interest to Remove One in whom the Soldiers had alrea - dy plac'd and entire and unalterable Confidence . This convinces me , That they must certainly be the Friends of the French King , that raise such malicious Ob - jections against the Duke of Marlborough . It will be and Obligation , Sir , to some of your Admirers if this be inserted , submitting it to what Alteration you think fit . Yours , etc ADVERTISEMENT . THE RHAPSODY , which was first Publish'd on New-YearsDay , and which has been and will be continue - ed every Tuesday , Thursday , and Saturday , having met with En - couragement ; this is to give Notice , that the Author will go on with the most Curious Works of the Ancient Poets and Histori - ans , both Greek and Latin ; and also the most valuable pieces of the Learned Moderns , both Italian , French and English . Sold by the Booksellers and News-sellers of London and Westminster , and John Morphew , near Stationers Hall . price 1 worser . London , Printed for J. Baker , in Pater-Noster-Row , by whom Advertisements are taken in . the most valuable pieces of the Learned Moderns , both Italian , French and English . Sold by the Booksellers and News-sellers of London and Westminster , and John Morphew , near Stationers Hall . price 1 worser . London , Printed for J. Baker , in Pater-Noster-Row , by whom Advertisements are taken in . 