The Wanton WIFE of BATH . The Tune is , Flying Fame . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days in many found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her soul at last to Heavens gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas for you good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave ; I will come in , in spite she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou wertenberg the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to Hell ; Thou false deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'dst thy father dear , and thine own brother too : Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straight , Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , on them two bastards god , And thus most tantingly she chafed against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alas fine minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go , Quod David , who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good sir , she said , unto Uriah's wife , And when thou causedst thy servants in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King . Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once for whom thou didst provide , For all this , three hundred whores thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to , in breeding of young bones ; Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured ; And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this . Thou whoreson run away , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of aspen-leaves are made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate : Quoth she , good woman you must think upon your former state : No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen , then 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again ; You for your honesty , quoth she , should once been stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the ear [ tO ] h , It was not your occupation , you are become divine . I hope my soul in Christ's Passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be denied . Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire ; How thou didst persecute God's Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he highs ; Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone , I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , Thou hast refused My proffer , grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Soar have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep into thy Flock again . O Lord my God I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee , But of the same in any wise , nor yet one word did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving Father did his Prodigal Son forgive . So I forgive thy soul he said , through thy repenting cry , Come therefore into my joy , I will not thee deny . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane , E . M and A.M. The Wanton WIFE of BATH . The Tune is , Flying Fame . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days in many found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her soul at last to Heavens gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas for you good Sir , she said , now gip you doting knave ; I will come in , in spite she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou wertenberg the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to Hell ; Thou false deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'dst thy father dear , and thine own brother too : Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straight , Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , on them two bastards god , And thus most tantingly she chafed against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alas fine minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go , Quod David , who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? You were more kind , good sir , she said , unto Uriah's wife , And when thou causedst thy servants in battle to be slave , Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King . Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once for whom thou didst provide , For all this , three hundred whores thou didst maintain beside ; And those made thee forsake thy God , and worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to , in breeding of young bones ; Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not have ventured ; And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , so vile a scold as this . Thou whoreson run away , quoth she , thou didst more amiss . I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues of aspen-leaves are made . Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true that's said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , she came unto the gate : Quoth she , good woman you must think upon your former state : No sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen , then 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again ; You for your honesty , quoth she , should once been stoned to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , and written on the ear [ tO ] h , It was not your occupation , you are become divine . I hope my soul in Christ's Passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle Paul , unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shalt be denied . Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire ; How thou didst persecute God's Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the gate he highs ; Found fool , quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thyself , for mercy may be wone , I never did deny my Christ , as thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with Heavenly Angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave , quoth he , Thou hast refused My proffer , grace , and mercy both , and much my name abused . Soar have I sinned , Oh Lord , she said , and spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep into thy Flock again . O Lord my God I will amend my former wicked vice : The thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee , But of the same in any wise , nor yet one word did you . I grant the same , Oh Lord , quoth she , most lewdly did I live , But yet the loving Father did his Prodigal Son forgive . So I forgive thy soul he said , through thy repenting cry , Come therefore into my joy , I will not thee deny . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane , E . M and A.M. 