DANGERFIELDs Dance . Giving and Account of several Notorious Crimes by him Committed ; VIZ , He pretended to be a DUKE , And feigned Himself to be MONMOUTH , With several other PRANKS : For which he was Sentenced To Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . This may be Printed , July 2. 1685. R.L.S. Entered according to Order . IT is no Wonder in this Crittick Age , To see Offenders mounted on the Stage , And Shameful Punishment on them attend , Who on their Shamming Wits so much depend ; Scourging and Pillorys fallen to their share , But all too little to make them beware : And Impudence to such a height is grown , As I believe the like was never known . Here you may see how Dangerfield's Aspir'd ! Who needs would be a Duke ! by all admir'd ! His subtle Crotchets , and his cunning Pate , Hath brought his Person to a dreadful State . How he did Scamper , if you did but mind , When on his Back he did the Torment find Of Scourging Justice , it would make you Smile , To see how Fortune did his hope's beguile ; And brought his feigned Highness to the Lash , Till brinish Tears his Brazen-Face did Wash . O hapless Dangerfield ! thou art mistook , That did for Honour and Obedience look . Thy great Ambition all Men do Rebuke , Could nothing serve , but thou must be a DUKE ? Fie , fie , it was too great and high a Style , Tho' Fortune for a moment seem'd to Smile ; Yet from thy Honour thou cam'st tumbling down , When she once fac'd about on thee to Frown : Old Newgate was the place to Entertain The Shamming DUKE , where thou didst long remain ; Till thou went Whipped and Scourg'd along the Streets , Which seem'd Sour Sauce after so many Sweets ; Yet 'twas but Just thou should'st it undergo , Because that you such Shirking Tricks did show ; And brought thee unto Condign Punishment , If't please Your Highness , what was your intent ? Poor Women to deceive , and get their Coin , It is no better then for to Purloin ; And make the World believe thou wertenberg some Spark Who had such Honour from thy Servant Mark , Like Oats , thy hope's are now in pieces crash'd , The Brains of thy Ambition out are dash'd . Whipping , instead of Cringing unto thee , Thou may'st expect will now thy Portion be . Thy Name for ever will be on Record , Thou must not be a Duke , nor yet a Lord ; A Newgate-Bird thou may'st accounted be , Highly deserving of the PILLORY . And since so Arch and Cunning thou art grown , To play such Pranks as ne'r before was known ; 'Tis pity thou should'st want of thy Desert , Tho' now thy Title is not worth a Fart . And so Duke Dangerfield I bid adieu , A thousand Lashes I bequeathe to you ; And hope you may to others warning be , Never to practice such base Villainy . Your Suffering , you cannot well deny , Is the Reward of your Audaucity ; To this your Reason cannot choose but yield , And now look to your Hits , Duke Dangerfield . FINIS . London , Printed by J.M. in the Year MDCLXXXV . DANGERFIELDs Dance . Giving and Account of several Notorious Crimes by him Committed ; VIZ , He pretended to be a DUKE , And feigned Himself to be MONMOUTH , With several other PRANKS : For which he was Sentenced To Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . This may be Printed , July 2. 1685. R.L.S. Entered according to Order . IT is no Wonder in this Crittick Age , To see Offenders mounted on the Stage , And Shameful Punishment on them attend , Who on their Shamming Wits so much depend ; Scourging and Pillorys fallen to their share , But all too little to make them beware : And Impudence to such a height is grown , As I believe the like was never known . Here you may see how Dangerfield's Aspir'd ! Who needs would be a Duke ! by all admir'd ! His subtle Crotchets , and his cunning Pate , Hath brought his Person to a dreadful State . How he did Scamper , if you did but mind , When on his Back he did the Torment find Of Scourging Justice , it would make you Smile , To see how Fortune did his hope's beguile ; And brought his feigned Highness to the Lash , Till brinish Tears his Brazen-Face did Wash . O hapless Dangerfield ! thou art mistook , That did for Honour and Obedience look . Thy great Ambition all Men do Rebuke , Could nothing serve , but thou must be a DUKE ? Fie , fie , it was too great and high a Style , Tho' Fortune for a moment seem'd to Smile ; Yet from thy Honour thou cam'st tumbling down , When she once fac'd about on thee to Frown : Old Newgate was the place to Entertain The Shamming DUKE , where thou didst long remain ; Till thou went Whipped and Scourg'd along the Streets , Which seem'd Sour Sauce after so many Sweets ; Yet 'twas but Just thou should'st it undergo , Because that you such Shirking Tricks did show ; And brought thee unto Condign Punishment , If't please Your Highness , what was your intent ? Poor Women to deceive , and get their Coin , It is no better then for to Purloin ; And make the World believe thou wertenberg some Spark Who had such Honour from thy Servant Mark , Like Oats , thy hope's are now in pieces crash'd , The Brains of thy Ambition out are dash'd . Whipping , instead of Cringing unto thee , Thou may'st expect will now thy Portion be . Thy Name for ever will be on Record , Thou must not be a Duke , nor yet a Lord ; A Newgate-Bird thou may'st accounted be , Highly deserving of the PILLORY . And since so Arch and Cunning thou art grown , To play such Pranks as ne'r before was known ; 'Tis pity thou should'st want of thy Desert , Tho' now thy Title is not worth a Fart . And so Duke Dangerfield I bid adieu , A thousand Lashes I bequeathe to you ; And hope you may to others warning be , Never to practice such base Villainy . Your Suffering , you cannot well deny , Is the Reward of your Audaucity ; To this your Reason cannot choose but yield , And now look to your Hits , Duke Dangerfield . FINIS . London , Printed by J.M. in the Year MDCLXXXV . 