The Soldiers sad Complaint . IS this the upshot then ? We that have spent Our best of Fortune's for a PARLIAMENT ? We that have sweat in blood , march't o're the Land , And where our feet did tread , our Swords command ? We that like burning Comets did appear , Striking astonishment with pallid fear , Upon the daring aspect of our Foes , Forcing even Death , under our dreadful blows To flag his fatal Standard ? We that have Been ( as of Banquets ) greedy of a grave ? When through the rivlets of our purple gore Flow'd streams of Victory unto the door Of our high palmed STATE , made GODS : no less ; And only happy through our wretchedness . When in our calmed postures we draw near Creeping addresses to that Lofty SPHEAR In naked Bodies , broken Legs , and Arms , In carved Limbs , which were erewhile as Charms To quiet Death , and make the Furies hushed , That we should suffer ? that we should be crushed With those iron hands ( though guilded with our blood , Not seeking others , but their own self-good ) We have upheld ? when we make humble plea With empty entrails , for our deer earn'd pay , ( Whilst your enlarded guts , and brawny sides Swine it with Epicurus , stretch your hides With glorry morsels ) are we kicked away , As if each Wight had turn'd Apostata ? Is this true Vallors pay ? coyn'd out of air And envy ? Tyranny ? that does outdare The very front of Hell . What , Soldiers ? and thus slighted ? The best of actions are the worst requited . 'Tis thought , and fear'd , your eyes that pity want , Ere long will turn the world all Adaman And every object by reflection , Be turned into , what you are , a Stone ; Should but your curious , wanton palates share As formerly our Fortune's , now our fare , ( Who once lay lugging at that Ladies Pap As full of plenty then , as now , mishap ) A two days sad experience , would condemn Your great ingratitude ; make you contemn Your cruelties ; and bring home to your Gate As much of love , as hitherto of hate . Who gave your SENAT being ? the Laws their breath ? Was't not our blood ? our hazarding of death ? And will you counsel murder ? fit to slay Even those by whom you fit , or whom , you stay ? From your full stores , then reach unto poor souls , Of what's their endue : Necessity controls The sharpest Laws . O hear their groans and cries Who hapless lives , and as yet hopeless dies . Per I.H. FINIS . The Soldiers sad Complaint . IS this the upshot then ? We that have spent Our best of Fortune's for a PARLIAMENT ? We that have sweat in blood , march't o're the Land , And where our feet did tread , our Swords command ? We that like burning Comets did appear , Striking astonishment with pallid fear , Upon the daring aspect of our Foes , Forcing even Death , under our dreadful blows To flag his fatal Standard ? We that have Been ( as of Banquets ) greedy of a grave ? When through the rivlets of our purple gore Flow'd streams of Victory unto the door Of our high palmed STATE , made GODS : no less ; And only happy through our wretchedness . When in our calmed postures we draw near Creeping addresses to that Lofty SPHEAR In naked Bodies , broken Legs , and Arms , In carved Limbs , which were erewhile as Charms To quiet Death , and make the Furies hushed , That we should suffer ? that we should be crushed With those iron hands ( though guilded with our blood , Not seeking others , but their own self-good ) We have upheld ? when we make humble plea With empty entrails , for our deer earn'd pay , ( Whilst your enlarded guts , and brawny sides Swine it with Epicurus , stretch your hides With glorry morsels ) are we kicked away , As if each Wight had turn'd Apostata ? Is this true Vallors pay ? coyn'd out of air And envy ? Tyranny ? that does outdare The very front of Hell . What , Soldiers ? and thus slighted ? The best of actions are the worst requited . 'Tis thought , and fear'd , your eyes that pity want , Ere long will turn the world all Adaman And every object by reflection , Be turned into , what you are , a Stone ; Should but your curious , wanton palates share As formerly our Fortune's , now our fare , ( Who once lay lugging at that Ladies Pap As full of plenty then , as now , mishap ) A two days sad experience , would condemn Your great ingratitude ; make you contemn Your cruelties ; and bring home to your Gate As much of love , as hitherto of hate . Who gave your SENAT being ? the Laws their breath ? Was't not our blood ? our hazarding of death ? And will you counsel murder ? fit to slay Even those by whom you fit , or whom , you stay ? From your full stores , then reach unto poor souls , Of what's their endue : Necessity controls The sharpest Laws . O hear their groans and cries Who hapless lives , and as yet hopeless dies . Per I.H. FINIS . 