Johnny Armstrongs Last Good Night . Declaring how Johnny Armstrong and his Eightscore Men fought a bloody Battle with the King of Edinburg IS there ever a Man in all Scotland From the highest Estate to the lowest Degree That can show himself before our King , Scotland is so full of treachery . Yes there is a Man in Westmoreland , And Johnny Armstrong they do him call , He has no Lands no Rends coming in , Yet he keeps Eightscore Men with in his Hall . He has Horse and Harness for them all , And goodly Steeds that be milkwhite , With goodly Belts about their Necks , with Hats and Feathers all alike . The King he wrote a loving Letter , And with his own Hand so tenderly And sent it unto Johnny Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily . When John he looked this Letter upon , Good Lord , he was as blithe as a Bird in a Tree I never was before a King in my Life , My Father , my Grandfather , nor none of us Three But seeing we must go before the King , Lord , we will go most gallantly , You shall everyone have a Velvet Cap Laid down with Golden Laces three And you shall everyone have a Scarlet Cloak Laid down with Golden Laces five . With your Golden Belts about your Necks With Hats and Feathers all alike But when John he went from Guiltknock-hall the wind it blew and full hard it did Rain Now fare thee well thou Guiltknock-hall I fear I shall never see thee again Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , with his Eightscore Men so gallantly , And every of them on a milkwhite Steed with Bucklers and Swords hanging to their Knee . But when John came the King before with his Eightscore Men so gallant to see The King he moved his Bonnet to him , He thought he had been a King as well as he He thought he had been a King as well as he Oh pardon Oh pardon my Sovereign Liege , Pardon for my Eightscore men and me For my Name it is Johnny Armstrong , and a subject of yours my Liege , said he . Away with thee , thou false Traitor , No pardon will I grant to thee , But tomorrow Morning by Eight of the Clock , I will hang up thy Eightscore Men and thee Then Johnny looked over his left Shoulder and to his merry Men thus said he I have asked Grace of a graceless Face No Pardon there is for thee nor me . Then John pull'd out his good broad Sword that was made of Metal so free , Had not the King moved his Foot as he did , John had taken his Head from his fair Body Come follow me my merry Men all we will scorn one Foot to fly , it shall never be said we were hang'd like Dogs , we will fight it out so manfully . Then they fought on like Champions bold For their Hearts were sturdy stout and free Till they had kill'd all the King's own Guards , there was none left alive but two or three But then rose up all Edi [ n ] borough they rose up by Thousands three , a cowardly Scot came John behind , and run him through the fair Body Said John fight on my merry Men all I am a little wounded , but am not slave , I will lay me down to bleed awhile then I'll rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad Men all , till many a Man lay dead on the Plain , For they were resolv'd before they'd yield , that every Mon would there be slave . So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his Foot-page with his bonny Grissel god away unta'en But when he came to Guiltknock-hall , the Lady espied him presently what News , what News thou little Foot-page , what News from thy Master and his Company . My News is bad ; Lady he said , which I do bring , as you may see My Master Johnny Armstrong is slave and all his gallant Company . Yet thou art welcome my bonny Grissel , Full oft thou hast been fed with Corn and Hay , But now thou shalt be fed with Bred and Wine , and thy Sides shall be spurr'd no more I say . O then bespoke his little Son , as he sat on his Nurse's Knee , if ever I live to be a Man , my Father's Death reveng'd shall be . FINIS . Johnny Armstrongs Last Good Night . Declaring how Johnny Armstrong and his Eightscore Men fought a bloody Battle with the King of Edinburg IS there ever a Man in all Scotland From the highest Estate to the lowest Degree That can show himself before our King , Scotland is so full of treachery . Yes there is a Man in Westmoreland , And Johnny Armstrong they do him call , He has no Lands no Rends coming in , Yet he keeps Eightscore Men with in his Hall . He has Horse and Harness for them all , And goodly Steeds that be milkwhite , With goodly Belts about their Necks , with Hats and Feathers all alike . The King he wrote a loving Letter , And with his own Hand so tenderly And sent it unto Johnny Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily . When John he looked this Letter upon , Good Lord , he was as blithe as a Bird in a Tree I never was before a King in my Life , My Father , my Grandfather , nor none of us Three But seeing we must go before the King , Lord , we will go most gallantly , You shall everyone have a Velvet Cap Laid down with Golden Laces three And you shall everyone have a Scarlet Cloak Laid down with Golden Laces five . With your Golden Belts about your Necks With Hats and Feathers all alike But when John he went from Guiltknock-hall the wind it blew and full hard it did Rain Now fare thee well thou Guiltknock-hall I fear I shall never see thee again Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , with his Eightscore Men so gallantly , And every of them on a milkwhite Steed with Bucklers and Swords hanging to their Knee . But when John came the King before with his Eightscore Men so gallant to see The King he moved his Bonnet to him , He thought he had been a King as well as he He thought he had been a King as well as he Oh pardon Oh pardon my Sovereign Liege , Pardon for my Eightscore men and me For my Name it is Johnny Armstrong , and a subject of yours my Liege , said he . Away with thee , thou false Traitor , No pardon will I grant to thee , But tomorrow Morning by Eight of the Clock , I will hang up thy Eightscore Men and thee Then Johnny looked over his left Shoulder and to his merry Men thus said he I have asked Grace of a graceless Face No Pardon there is for thee nor me . Then John pull'd out his good broad Sword that was made of Metal so free , Had not the King moved his Foot as he did , John had taken his Head from his fair Body Come follow me my merry Men all we will scorn one Foot to fly , it shall never be said we were hang'd like Dogs , we will fight it out so manfully . Then they fought on like Champions bold For their Hearts were sturdy stout and free Till they had kill'd all the King's own Guards , there was none left alive but two or three But then rose up all Edi [ n ] borough they rose up by Thousands three , a cowardly Scot came John behind , and run him through the fair Body Said John fight on my merry Men all I am a little wounded , but am not slave , I will lay me down to bleed awhile then I'll rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad Men all , till many a Man lay dead on the Plain , For they were resolv'd before they'd yield , that every Mon would there be slave . So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his Foot-page with his bonny Grissel god away unta'en But when he came to Guiltknock-hall , the Lady espied him presently what News , what News thou little Foot-page , what News from thy Master and his Company . My News is bad ; Lady he said , which I do bring , as you may see My Master Johnny Armstrong is slave and all his gallant Company . Yet thou art welcome my bonny Grissel , Full oft thou hast been fed with Corn and Hay , But now thou shalt be fed with Bred and Wine , and thy Sides shall be spurr'd no more I say . O then bespoke his little Son , as he sat on his Nurse's Knee , if ever I live to be a Man , my Father's Death reveng'd shall be . FINIS . 