The Staffordshire Maid . COME all you young gallants , and listen awhile , I'll tell you a story shall make you to smile : It is of a bold young Staffordshire Maid , Her part with a rogue of a Tinker she play'd . At Yarmouth this Damsel did live , as we hear , Along with a Farmer the Space of a Year ; But being desirous her Parents to see , She gave her master warning for to go away . Her master in wages paid her four pounds . She put it in her box , with her headclothes and gown , And having a box for to hold her clothes , With her box on her head from her master she goes She had not been god from town [ h ] alf a mile , Before a bold Tinker met her at a style ; When smiling in her face , unto her he said , Where are you going , my charming fair Maid ? I am going to Hurley , where my parents do dwell . Then , reply'd the Tinker , I know them full well : But be ruled by me , the Tinker did say , You'll surely be robb'd if you go the highway . If you turn to the right , it will be the same , Then be ruled by me , and go strait down this lane ; It is round about , yet better , he said , Than for to be robbed , my charming fair Maid . She thanked the Tinker , and went on her Way . He soon called to her , and bid her to stay : I am going down this lane the space of a mile . Poor girl , she little thought that he would her beguile , Down the lane the Maid and the Tinker did walk , Diverting each other with innocent talk , Until they came to a lonesome place ; Then the Tinker look'd her so sly in the face : What is in your box ? come tell unto me , And , taking it from her , demanded the key : She said she had lost it , with tears in her eyes . A long pikestaff the Tinker laid by . And while he was busied in opening the lock , With the same she gave him a damnable knock : The knock that she gave him let him to know , Her staff it was ready to give t'other blow . Another she gave him on the side of the head , The blood it ran down : she left him for dead , And said , Lie there villain and rogue in thy heart , Thy traitorous actions have met their desert . So , taking the box on her head once again , And as she was walking down the long lane , There she met a gentleman , who did her entreat , And ask'd her the favour to open the gate . To open the gate , that his horse might go thro' , And as the gentleman nigh to her drew , He said , To whom does that box on your head now belong , To master , or mistress , or have you done wrong ? No , I've done no wrong , but a crime that's as ill , For I do believe that a man I have kill'd : Come show me the man , he strait to her said , And I will protect you from danger , fair maid . She shew'd him the place where the Tinker lay dead A long stream of blood was run down from his head In his budget were pistols with powder and ball , And likewise a whistle his companions to call . Likewise a hanger he had by his side ; A large pair of spurs if occasion to ride . He said , Fair damsel , you might have been abus'd , These are odd sort of tools for a Tinker to use . He said , Fair maid , have you courage to stand To fire a pistol , when danger's at hand . She said , Sir , I have , and never will start , When danger's at hand I will soon play my part . Then he took the whistle , and gave such a blow , As made the groves to ring , and the thieves to crow In a few minutes the villains did appear , And seeing what was done , began for to swear , They would be reveng'd , then the maid without dread She cocked her pistol , and killed one stone dead ; Another villain the gentleman shot , Who fell on the ground stone dead on the spot . Another bold villain , he seeing what was done , He took to his heels , and away he did run . The gentleman pursu'd him , and brought him to town , When the truth of the matter was quickly made known . The Jailer to the assizes is come , as 'tis said , And for this , money brave girl shall be paid , Full fifty bright guineas she made , it appears , Beside the effects in the budget , as we hear . Now all the brave lads they were at a strife , Who should gain this brave girl for a wife : But none of them was ordained so right , As he who made her a lady so bright . Printed and Sold in Bow Church Yard . The Staffordshire Maid . COME all you young gallants , and listen awhile , I'll tell you a story shall make you to smile : It is of a bold young Staffordshire Maid , Her part with a rogue of a Tinker she play'd . At Yarmouth this Damsel did live , as we hear , Along with a Farmer the Space of a Year ; But being desirous her Parents to see , She gave her master warning for to go away . Her master in wages paid her four pounds . She put it in her box , with her headclothes and gown , And having a box for to hold her clothes , With her box on her head from her master she goes She had not been god from town [ h ] alf a mile , Before a bold Tinker met her at a style ; When smiling in her face , unto her he said , Where are you going , my charming fair Maid ? I am going to Hurley , where my parents do dwell . Then , reply'd the Tinker , I know them full well : But be ruled by me , the Tinker did say , You'll surely be robb'd if you go the highway . If you turn to the right , it will be the same , Then be ruled by me , and go strait down this lane ; It is round about , yet better , he said , Than for to be robbed , my charming fair Maid . She thanked the Tinker , and went on her Way . He soon called to her , and bid her to stay : I am going down this lane the space of a mile . Poor girl , she little thought that he would her beguile , Down the lane the Maid and the Tinker did walk , Diverting each other with innocent talk , Until they came to a lonesome place ; Then the Tinker look'd her so sly in the face : What is in your box ? come tell unto me , And , taking it from her , demanded the key : She said she had lost it , with tears in her eyes . A long pikestaff the Tinker laid by . And while he was busied in opening the lock , With the same she gave him a damnable knock : The knock that she gave him let him to know , Her staff it was ready to give t'other blow . Another she gave him on the side of the head , The blood it ran down : she left him for dead , And said , Lie there villain and rogue in thy heart , Thy traitorous actions have met their desert . So , taking the box on her head once again , And as she was walking down the long lane , There she met a gentleman , who did her entreat , And ask'd her the favour to open the gate . To open the gate , that his horse might go thro' , And as the gentleman nigh to her drew , He said , To whom does that box on your head now belong , To master , or mistress , or have you done wrong ? No , I've done no wrong , but a crime that's as ill , For I do believe that a man I have kill'd : Come show me the man , he strait to her said , And I will protect you from danger , fair maid . She shew'd him the place where the Tinker lay dead A long stream of blood was run down from his head In his budget were pistols with powder and ball , And likewise a whistle his companions to call . Likewise a hanger he had by his side ; A large pair of spurs if occasion to ride . He said , Fair damsel , you might have been abus'd , These are odd sort of tools for a Tinker to use . He said , Fair maid , have you courage to stand To fire a pistol , when danger's at hand . She said , Sir , I have , and never will start , When danger's at hand I will soon play my part . Then he took the whistle , and gave such a blow , As made the groves to ring , and the thieves to crow In a few minutes the villains did appear , And seeing what was done , began for to swear , They would be reveng'd , then the maid without dread She cocked her pistol , and killed one stone dead ; Another villain the gentleman shot , Who fell on the ground stone dead on the spot . Another bold villain , he seeing what was done , He took to his heels , and away he did run . The gentleman pursu'd him , and brought him to town , When the truth of the matter was quickly made known . The Jailer to the assizes is come , as 'tis said , And for this , money brave girl shall be paid , Full fifty bright guineas she made , it appears , Beside the effects in the budget , as we hear . Now all the brave lads they were at a strife , Who should gain this brave girl for a wife : But none of them was ordained so right , As he who made her a lady so bright . Printed and Sold in Bow Church Yard . 