The wonderful example of God showed upon Jasper Coningham , a Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of opinion that there was neither God nor Devil , Heaven nor Hell . To the tune of Oh neighbour Robert . IT was a Scotchman , a Scotchman lewd of life : That long had lived , unlawful from his wife . His name was Jasper Coningham , as I do understand : whose dwelling was near Aberdine , a town in fair Scotland . He had a sister , which was both fair and brigh Worshipfully wedded , unto a wealthy knight . Godly , wise , and virtuous , in everything was she : A fairer comely Lady , in Scotland could not be . Her wicked brother , such inward pangs did prove : With his fair sister , he greatly falls in love . He watches time he woes her , and shows to her his mind : And still he says sweet sister : be not to me unkind . This comely Lady , in mild and gentle wise : Unto her brother , thus modestly replies , The Lord forbid deer brother , I should consent at all , To such a damned actium , to bring our souls in thrall . Is not great torments , prepar'd for hateful sin : Is not God as righteous , as he hath ever been : Is not hell prepared , with quenchless flames of fire : To give such wicked persons , their due deserved hire . Her brother hearing , her godly Christian talk : Within the garden , as they alone did walk , Blasphemously replied , all shameless as he stood : Saying she had declared , a tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived , fair sister then quoth he : To talk of heavens glory , or of hels pain to me . These are devised fables , to keep poor fools in fear : That were by wisemen written , though no such things there were . Alas he said my sister , these things are nothing so : No God nor devil is biding , no heaven nor hell I know . All things are wrought by Nature , the earth , the air , and sky : There is no joy nor sorrow , after that man doth die . Therefore let me have pleasure , while here I do remain : I fear not Gods displeasure , nor hels tormenting pain . No sooner had he spoken , this foul blasphemous thing : But that a heavy judgement , the Lord did on him bring . For in the garden , whereas he did bide : Suddenly a fire , sprung up on every side . Which round about enclosed , this damned wretch that day : Who roar'd and cri'd most grievously but could not start away . This fearful fire , by to his knees did rise : Burning blue like Brimstone , in most outrageous wise . The Lady which beheld it , ran crying in for aid : To pluck away her brother , which in the fire stayed . But not a finger , nor hand that he could move , His arms hung dead beside him , great pain that he did prove : And now he bans and curses , the day that he was born : And wishes that his carcase , by devils might be torn . Now feel I surely , quoth he there is a God : That soar doth plague me , with his strong Iron rod . O hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me : Nothing but wrath and vengeance , about him I do see . And with these speeches , his eyes fell from his head , And by the strings hung dangling , below his chin stark dead . See how the devils he said , have plucked my eyes out quite : That always were unworthy , to view the heavens light . Then from his mouth , his foul blasphemous tongue : In ugly manner , most piteous it hung : And there away it rotted , in all the peoples sighs By lice and filthy vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groanings , and shrieks that sounded high : two hours after , this cursed man did lie : And there at length he died , and then the fire ceas His carcase stunk more filthily , then any carrion beast . No man was able , for to endure the smell : Nor yet to come to bury him , as true report does tell , Until he was consumed , he lay above the ground : the doors about the garden , therefore was locked round . Let all blasphemers , take warning by this thing : lest that Gods vengeance , they do upon them bring : And Lord grant all good Christians his grace and godly fear , they may think on the punishment , that Coningham had here . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Thomas Millington , and are to be sold at his shop in Corn - hill . The wonderful example of God showed upon Jasper Coningham , a Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of opinion that there was neither God nor Devil , Heaven nor Hell . To the tune of Oh neighbour Robert . IT was a Scotchman , a Scotchman lewd of life : That long had lived , unlawful from his wife . His name was Jasper Coningham , as I do understand : whose dwelling was near Aberdine , a town in fair Scotland . He had a sister , which was both fair and brigh Worshipfully wedded , unto a wealthy knight . Godly , wise , and virtuous , in everything was she : A fairer comely Lady , in Scotland could not be . Her wicked brother , such inward pangs did prove : With his fair sister , he greatly falls in love . He watches time he woes her , and shows to her his mind : And still he says sweet sister : be not to me unkind . This comely Lady , in mild and gentle wise : Unto her brother , thus modestly replies , The Lord forbid deer brother , I should consent at all , To such a damned actium , to bring our souls in thrall . Is not great torments , prepar'd for hateful sin : Is not God as righteous , as he hath ever been : Is not hell prepared , with quenchless flames of fire : To give such wicked persons , their due deserved hire . Her brother hearing , her godly Christian talk : Within the garden , as they alone did walk , Blasphemously replied , all shameless as he stood : Saying she had declared , a tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived , fair sister then quoth he : To talk of heavens glory , or of hels pain to me . These are devised fables , to keep poor fools in fear : That were by wisemen written , though no such things there were . Alas he said my sister , these things are nothing so : No God nor devil is biding , no heaven nor hell I know . All things are wrought by Nature , the earth , the air , and sky : There is no joy nor sorrow , after that man doth die . Therefore let me have pleasure , while here I do remain : I fear not Gods displeasure , nor hels tormenting pain . No sooner had he spoken , this foul blasphemous thing : But that a heavy judgement , the Lord did on him bring . For in the garden , whereas he did bide : Suddenly a fire , sprung up on every side . Which round about enclosed , this damned wretch that day : Who roar'd and cri'd most grievously but could not start away . This fearful fire , by to his knees did rise : Burning blue like Brimstone , in most outrageous wise . The Lady which beheld it , ran crying in for aid : To pluck away her brother , which in the fire stayed . But not a finger , nor hand that he could move , His arms hung dead beside him , great pain that he did prove : And now he bans and curses , the day that he was born : And wishes that his carcase , by devils might be torn . Now feel I surely , quoth he there is a God : That soar doth plague me , with his strong Iron rod . O hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me : Nothing but wrath and vengeance , about him I do see . And with these speeches , his eyes fell from his head , And by the strings hung dangling , below his chin stark dead . See how the devils he said , have plucked my eyes out quite : That always were unworthy , to view the heavens light . Then from his mouth , his foul blasphemous tongue : In ugly manner , most piteous it hung : And there away it rotted , in all the peoples sighs By lice and filthy vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groanings , and shrieks that sounded high : two hours after , this cursed man did lie : And there at length he died , and then the fire ceas His carcase stunk more filthily , then any carrion beast . No man was able , for to endure the smell : Nor yet to come to bury him , as true report does tell , Until he was consumed , he lay above the ground : the doors about the garden , therefore was locked round . Let all blasphemers , take warning by this thing : lest that Gods vengeance , they do upon them bring : And Lord grant all good Christians his grace and godly fear , they may think on the punishment , that Coningham had here . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Thomas Millington , and are to be sold at his shop in Corn - hill . 