THE BLOODY GARDENER's CRUELTY , Or , the Shepherd's Daughter betrayed . COME all you constant lovers , and to me lend and ear , And mind this sad relation which I do give you here , 'Tis of a maiden fair , A shepherd's daughter dear , But love did prove her utter overthrow ; She was of beauteous mould , fair and clear to behold And by a noble Lord she courted were But was too young we find , As yet found love to mind , Yet little Cupid did her heart ensnare . His parents they were all of high degree , They said , she is no match at all for thee , If you'll a blessing have , Grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear son , for you we have chosen out a bride , With store of gold , and beautiful beside , Of a temper kind and free , She is the girl for thee , But not a shepherd's daughter of mean degree . And if by us you'll not be rul'd or led , You from our presence shall be banished , No more we will you own , To be our only son , Then let our will be done , to end the strife . Madam , said he , if a begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do , If that I could but have , The girl that I do crave , No curs'd gold shall part my love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of royal robe , And lord of all the globe , she should be mine , His mother said in scorn , Thou art most nobly born , And with a beggar's brat shall never join . He hearing his mother to say so , His eyes did then with tears like fountains flow Saying , a promise I have made , And her beauty betray'd , Therefore no other for my bride I choose . A cruel snare then for her life she laid , And for to act this thing , Oh then she did , With her gard'ner she agreed , To do the bloody deed , And butcher her forthwith , and dig her grave . To the bloody gardener she gave fourscore pounds To murder her , and lay her underground , All in a grave so deep , In everlasting sleep , Hoping her fair body would not be found . She wrote a letter , and sent it with speed , Saying , my dearest , with haste now proceed , Meet me this night I pray , I've something to say , Poor girl , she little thought upon the deed . The youthful shepherdess of this nothing knew But went to seek her true love as she us'd to do , She search'd the garden round , But no true love she found , At length the bloody gardener did appear . What business have you here , madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the garden gay ? Cries she , no thief I am , To meet my love I'm come , Which did this night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more but straight a knife he took , And pierc'd her heart before one word he spoke Then on the ground she fell , Crying , sweet love , farewell , Oh welcome , Death , thy fatal stroke . Was this done now my dear by your design , Or by your cruel parents most unkind , My life is thus betray'd ; Farewell vain world , she said , I hope in Heaven , I a place shall find . But when he saw her life was really gone , Immediately he laid her in the ground , With flowers fine and gay , Her corpse did overlay , Intending that her body should not be found . Now all the time this Lord he little knew , But went to meet his true love as he used to do He search'd the valleys round , But no true love he found , The little lambs were wandering to and from , Lamenting greatly for their shepherdess , Then he did lay him down upon the grass , The heavens he did implore , To see his love once more , Oh then you gods above I am surely blessed . O whither shall I seek that angel bright , Who is alone my pleasure and delight , Pray if alive she be , Let me my true love see , Or else my soul will quickly take its flight . Whereat the woods and groves began to mourn The small birds they did sing a mournful tune , Crying your love is gone , And left you quite alone . Then on a mossy bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his eyes to sleep , But a milkwhite dove came to his breast , Her flutt'ring wings did beatrice , Which wak'd him out of sleep , And then the dove took to wing , and he was blessed . To his mother's garden straight he did repair , For to bemoan the loss of his dear , Here the dove once more he see , Sitting on a myrtle tree , With drooping wings she did disconsolate appear . O done , disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you lost your love as I have done , That you dodge me here , No comfort can I bear , Then thus the dove replied , and then flew down . Saying it was your mother order'd it so That from her milkwhite breast her blood did flow , To the grove he did repair , But found no true love there , Homeward then to his mother he did go . He said , mother , most cruel and severe , I fear you've killed my joy and only dear ; For a dove I do declare , Did all in blood appear , And said , if she is dead her fate I'll share . His mother hearing what the son did say , She turn'd as pale as death and swoon'd away , Then into distraction run , And told what she had done , And where the virgin's body it then lay . He said no more , but straightway took a knife , And said , now farewell to the comforts of life , Then into the garden he flew , And pierc'd his body through , And said , it was curs'd gold caus'd all this strife . These two lovers in one tomb were laid , And many a briny tear for them was shed , And the gard'ner as we hear , Was apprehended there , And hung in chains , for being so severe . Printed and sold by Jennings , Water-lane , Fleet-street , London . Price One Penny . THE BLOODY GARDENER's CRUELTY , Or , the Shepherd's Daughter betrayed . COME all you constant lovers , and to me lend and ear , And mind this sad relation which I do give you here , 'Tis of a maiden fair , A shepherd's daughter dear , But love did prove her utter overthrow ; She was of beauteous mould , fair and clear to behold And by a noble Lord she courted were But was too young we find , As yet found love to mind , Yet little Cupid did her heart ensnare . His parents they were all of high degree , They said , she is no match at all for thee , If you'll a blessing have , Grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear son , for you we have chosen out a bride , With store of gold , and beautiful beside , Of a temper kind and free , She is the girl for thee , But not a shepherd's daughter of mean degree . And if by us you'll not be rul'd or led , You from our presence shall be banished , No more we will you own , To be our only son , Then let our will be done , to end the strife . Madam , said he , if a begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do , If that I could but have , The girl that I do crave , No curs'd gold shall part my love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of royal robe , And lord of all the globe , she should be mine , His mother said in scorn , Thou art most nobly born , And with a beggar's brat shall never join . He hearing his mother to say so , His eyes did then with tears like fountains flow Saying , a promise I have made , And her beauty betray'd , Therefore no other for my bride I choose . A cruel snare then for her life she laid , And for to act this thing , Oh then she did , With her gard'ner she agreed , To do the bloody deed , And butcher her forthwith , and dig her grave . To the bloody gardener she gave fourscore pounds To murder her , and lay her underground , All in a grave so deep , In everlasting sleep , Hoping her fair body would not be found . She wrote a letter , and sent it with speed , Saying , my dearest , with haste now proceed , Meet me this night I pray , I've something to say , Poor girl , she little thought upon the deed . The youthful shepherdess of this nothing knew But went to seek her true love as she us'd to do , She search'd the garden round , But no true love she found , At length the bloody gardener did appear . What business have you here , madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the garden gay ? Cries she , no thief I am , To meet my love I'm come , Which did this night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more but straight a knife he took , And pierc'd her heart before one word he spoke Then on the ground she fell , Crying , sweet love , farewell , Oh welcome , Death , thy fatal stroke . Was this done now my dear by your design , Or by your cruel parents most unkind , My life is thus betray'd ; Farewell vain world , she said , I hope in Heaven , I a place shall find . But when he saw her life was really gone , Immediately he laid her in the ground , With flowers fine and gay , Her corpse did overlay , Intending that her body should not be found . Now all the time this Lord he little knew , But went to meet his true love as he used to do He search'd the valleys round , But no true love he found , The little lambs were wandering to and from , Lamenting greatly for their shepherdess , Then he did lay him down upon the grass , The heavens he did implore , To see his love once more , Oh then you gods above I am surely blessed . O whither shall I seek that angel bright , Who is alone my pleasure and delight , Pray if alive she be , Let me my true love see , Or else my soul will quickly take its flight . Whereat the woods and groves began to mourn The small birds they did sing a mournful tune , Crying your love is gone , And left you quite alone . Then on a mossy bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his eyes to sleep , But a milkwhite dove came to his breast , Her flutt'ring wings did beatrice , Which wak'd him out of sleep , And then the dove took to wing , and he was blessed . To his mother's garden straight he did repair , For to bemoan the loss of his dear , Here the dove once more he see , Sitting on a myrtle tree , With drooping wings she did disconsolate appear . O done , disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you lost your love as I have done , That you dodge me here , No comfort can I bear , Then thus the dove replied , and then flew down . Saying it was your mother order'd it so That from her milkwhite breast her blood did flow , To the grove he did repair , But found no true love there , Homeward then to his mother he did go . He said , mother , most cruel and severe , I fear you've killed my joy and only dear ; For a dove I do declare , Did all in blood appear , And said , if she is dead her fate I'll share . His mother hearing what the son did say , She turn'd as pale as death and swoon'd away , Then into distraction run , And told what she had done , And where the virgin's body it then lay . He said no more , but straightway took a knife , And said , now farewell to the comforts of life , Then into the garden he flew , And pierc'd his body through , And said , it was curs'd gold caus'd all this strife . These two lovers in one tomb were laid , And many a briny tear for them was shed , And the gard'ner as we hear , Was apprehended there , And hung in chains , for being so severe . Printed and sold by Jennings , Water-lane , Fleet-street , London . Price One Penny . 