THE West Country Nymph Or the Loyal Maid of Bristol . The Flower of Bristol does complain For the absence of her Love And vows she constant will remain Like to the Turtle Dove . Tune , Young Jammy . COme all you Maidens fair and listen to my Ditty In Bristol City fair , there liv'd a damsel pretty She to a Seaman was engag'd him she did love most dear . And when the roaring Billows rag'd her heart was filled with fear . When stormy winds did blow she sorely was oppressed Her countenance did show that she was much distressed Quoth she you gods what do you mean to fill me thus with fear Such storms as these were never seen but yet preserve my Dear . For I will constant be and ever faithful to him , Thrice happy shall I be if e'r I live to view him But shou'd he die and not return as I do greatly fear I with the Turtle Dove will mourn for my beloved Dear . For he is in mine eye the glory of this Nation And at his constancy I stand in admiration . It would my heart most joyful make to see my love appear Which now with fear does sadly ache for my beloved dear . You that are cros'd in Love my happiness admire My dear does constant prove what can I more desire I'll go and stand on Dundre Hill to see his ship appear Where by my self isle weep my fill for my beloved dear . But if by cruel fate my true love should miscarry Who could my grief relate in Bristol idem ne'r tarry . To some strange Deserts I would fly and wander far and near With woeful screeks to pierce the sky for my beloved dear . But yet my Love so kind I think the duce was in thee To leave me here behind and Sail unto Virginny , Make haste and home return again or I shall die with fear For my poir sake now leave the Main mine own beloved dear . Didst thou the torments know that I have long endured It would procure thy woe fine certainly assured , Thou'rt unacquainted with my pain my sorrow and my fear O then make haste and come again mine own beloved dear . No soul beneath the Sun hath been more heavy hearted Since my true Love was gone and from his dearest parted But time I hope will make amends for all my care and fear When we two meet like faithful friends then will I hug my dear . Till then I shall lament for the absence of my true Love And pine in discontent I hope this so with you love And every day I wish for thee to banish all my fear Oh quickly come and comfort me my own beloved dear . Printed for P. Brooksby . THE West Country Nymph Or the Loyal Maid of Bristol . The Flower of Bristol does complain For the absence of her Love And vows she constant will remain Like to the Turtle Dove . Tune , Young Jammy . COme all you Maidens fair and listen to my Ditty In Bristol City fair , there liv'd a damsel pretty She to a Seaman was engag'd him she did love most dear . And when the roaring Billows rag'd her heart was filled with fear . When stormy winds did blow she sorely was oppressed Her countenance did show that she was much distressed Quoth she you gods what do you mean to fill me thus with fear Such storms as these were never seen but yet preserve my Dear . For I will constant be and ever faithful to him , Thrice happy shall I be if e'r I live to view him But shou'd he die and not return as I do greatly fear I with the Turtle Dove will mourn for my beloved Dear . For he is in mine eye the glory of this Nation And at his constancy I stand in admiration . It would my heart most joyful make to see my love appear Which now with fear does sadly ache for my beloved dear . You that are cros'd in Love my happiness admire My dear does constant prove what can I more desire I'll go and stand on Dundre Hill to see his ship appear Where by my self isle weep my fill for my beloved dear . But if by cruel fate my true love should miscarry Who could my grief relate in Bristol idem ne'r tarry . To some strange Deserts I would fly and wander far and near With woeful screeks to pierce the sky for my beloved dear . But yet my Love so kind I think the duce was in thee To leave me here behind and Sail unto Virginny , Make haste and home return again or I shall die with fear For my poir sake now leave the Main mine own beloved dear . Didst thou the torments know that I have long endured It would procure thy woe fine certainly assured , Thou'rt unacquainted with my pain my sorrow and my fear O then make haste and come again mine own beloved dear . No soul beneath the Sun hath been more heavy hearted Since my true Love was gone and from his dearest parted But time I hope will make amends for all my care and fear When we two meet like faithful friends then will I hug my dear . Till then I shall lament for the absence of my true Love And pine in discontent I hope this so with you love And every day I wish for thee to banish all my fear Oh quickly come and comfort me my own beloved dear . Printed for P. Brooksby . 