ADMIRAL HOOD's CONQUEST , Over the COUNT DE GRASSE . COME all you jovial sailors , Give ear unto my song , Let joy inspire your hearts , While glory leads you on : The Count de Grass with all his fleet , Has threat'ned us full soar , That with his grand Armada , He'll scour the British shore ; Our ships he'll sink , our islands take , All under his command , But the courage of bold Britons , Has stopped his warlike hand . The proud and lofty hero , In Port Royal harbour lay , And on the eighth of April , From thence he sail'd away : And with his floating batteries , In number thirty three , A large convoy of transports , To bear him company ; With troops and ammunition , As plainly does appear , For to besiege Jamaica , His course he strait did steer . He thought this great attempt , Was very bold indeed ; But now I will unfold to you , How far he did succeed : For Hood he soon had tidings , The bards had took their flight , That he with so much diligence , Had watch'd both day and nigh Then with the gallant British fleet , We sail'd from St. Lucia , Resolving the destruction , Of the daring enemy . It was on the ninth of April , Just at the break of day , We espy'd those lofty Frenchmen , At Dominica lay ; There being but little wind , And they to windward were , In spite of all our best efforts , Their convoy did get clear : The squadron under gallant Hood , Receiv'd a glorious breeze , To bring the French to actium , The present moment seiz'd . The whole French fleet we did engage , Full eight glasses or more , And with our little squadron , So well we paid their score ; And like undaunted Britons , Each man stood to his gun , Altho' the French at times Were nearly two to one ; The rest of our fleet coming up , On them began to play , Which made 'em for to haul their wind , And like cowards run away . Those cowards then to windward , Three days we did pursue , Until the twelfth of April , The glorious fight renew'd : The wind did seem to favour us , Our fleet hove in a line , And for to close our enemy . It were our whole design : Bold Drake he led the van , And fully bent was he , To die or else to conquer , The daring enemy . The actium it commenced , From the van unto the rear , And we broke their line of battle , Amid the smoke of fire : Their Glory we dismasted , Our shot as well we play'd , While fury round the enemy , Did rage on ev'ry side ; So closely we pursu'd them , They knew not where to run , To shelter their disabled ships , From the fire of English guns . From morning until evening , The battle we maintain'd , The sea on every side of us , Seem'd to be in a flame : The lofty Ville de Paris , And haughty Count de Grass , One of them we took prisoner , The other lay ava's What joy inspir'd each Briton's heart , When the actium it did close , To see the LILLY of France , Strike to the English ROSE . Now the lofty Ville de Paris , To Louis is no more ; Behold she trims her lofty sails , To deck Britannia's shore : With three more of their lofty ships , Bearing her company ; Two more to make the fight complete , Lay buried in the sea : So now proud Louis think no more , Bold Britons to ensnare ; Our English tars will curb your pride , Your boasting we don't fear . So Britons now join chorus , And found our Admirals' praise , Brave gallant Hood and Drake , The terror of the seas : All captains and lieutenants bold , That fought with courage great , All office [ er ] s and seamen , Throughout the British fleet ; For we have , and will still beatrice them , So Britons bold advance , To curb the boasting insults , Of proud and haughty France . TURNER , PRINTER . ADMIRAL HOOD's CONQUEST , Over the COUNT DE GRASSE . COME all you jovial sailors , Give ear unto my song , Let joy inspire your hearts , While glory leads you on : The Count de Grass with all his fleet , Has threat'ned us full soar , That with his grand Armada , He'll scour the British shore ; Our ships he'll sink , our islands take , All under his command , But the courage of bold Britons , Has stopped his warlike hand . The proud and lofty hero , In Port Royal harbour lay , And on the eighth of April , From thence he sail'd away : And with his floating batteries , In number thirty three , A large convoy of transports , To bear him company ; With troops and ammunition , As plainly does appear , For to besiege Jamaica , His course he strait did steer . He thought this great attempt , Was very bold indeed ; But now I will unfold to you , How far he did succeed : For Hood he soon had tidings , The bards had took their flight , That he with so much diligence , Had watch'd both day and nigh Then with the gallant British fleet , We sail'd from St. Lucia , Resolving the destruction , Of the daring enemy . It was on the ninth of April , Just at the break of day , We espy'd those lofty Frenchmen , At Dominica lay ; There being but little wind , And they to windward were , In spite of all our best efforts , Their convoy did get clear : The squadron under gallant Hood , Receiv'd a glorious breeze , To bring the French to actium , The present moment seiz'd . The whole French fleet we did engage , Full eight glasses or more , And with our little squadron , So well we paid their score ; And like undaunted Britons , Each man stood to his gun , Altho' the French at times Were nearly two to one ; The rest of our fleet coming up , On them began to play , Which made 'em for to haul their wind , And like cowards run away . Those cowards then to windward , Three days we did pursue , Until the twelfth of April , The glorious fight renew'd : The wind did seem to favour us , Our fleet hove in a line , And for to close our enemy . It were our whole design : Bold Drake he led the van , And fully bent was he , To die or else to conquer , The daring enemy . The actium it commenced , From the van unto the rear , And we broke their line of battle , Amid the smoke of fire : Their Glory we dismasted , Our shot as well we play'd , While fury round the enemy , Did rage on ev'ry side ; So closely we pursu'd them , They knew not where to run , To shelter their disabled ships , From the fire of English guns . From morning until evening , The battle we maintain'd , The sea on every side of us , Seem'd to be in a flame : The lofty Ville de Paris , And haughty Count de Grass , One of them we took prisoner , The other lay ava's What joy inspir'd each Briton's heart , When the actium it did close , To see the LILLY of France , Strike to the English ROSE . Now the lofty Ville de Paris , To Louis is no more ; Behold she trims her lofty sails , To deck Britannia's shore : With three more of their lofty ships , Bearing her company ; Two more to make the fight complete , Lay buried in the sea : So now proud Louis think no more , Bold Britons to ensnare ; Our English tars will curb your pride , Your boasting we don't fear . So Britons now join chorus , And found our Admirals' praise , Brave gallant Hood and Drake , The terror of the seas : All captains and lieutenants bold , That fought with courage great , All office [ er ] s and seamen , Throughout the British fleet ; For we have , and will still beatrice them , So Britons bold advance , To curb the boasting insults , Of proud and haughty France . TURNER , PRINTER . 