Room for a Jovial Tinker , Old Brass to mend . OR , Here is a Tinker full of Mettle , The which can mend , pot , pan , or Kettle ; For stopping of holes is his delight , His work goes forward day and nigh If there be any Woman brave , Whose Couldrons need of mending have ; Send for this Tinker , ne'r deny him , He'l do your work well if you try him : A proof of him , i'le forthwith show , 'Cause you his workmanship may know . The Tune is , Behold the man , etc IT was a Lady of the North , she lov'd a Gentleman , And knew not well what course to take , to use him now and then ; Wherefore she writ a Letter , and seal'd it with her hand , And bid him be a Tinker , to mend both pot and Pan : With a heigh ho heigh derry derry down , with heigh trey down down derry , And when this merry Gentleman , the Letter he did read , He god a Budget on his back , and Apron with all speed : His pretty shears and pincers , so well they did agree , With a long Pike staff upon his neck , came triping o're the Lee : With a heigh , etc When he came to the Ladies house , he knocked at the gate , Then answered this Lady gay , who knocketh there so late ? 'Tis I Madam the Tinker said , I work for Gold and Fee , If y'have any broken Pots and Pans , then bring them all to me : With a heigh , etc I Am the bravest Tinker , that lives beneath the Sun If you have any Work to do , you shall have it well done : I have brass within my Budget , and punching under my Apron , I'm come unto your Ladyship , and mean to mend your Cauldron . With a heigh ho heigh derry derry down , with a hey trey down down derry , I prithee said the Lady gay , bring now thy Budget in , I have store of work for thee to do , if thou wilt once begin . Now when the Tinker he came in , that did the Budget bear , God bless , quoth he , your Ladyship , God bless you Madam fair , With a heigh , etc But when the Lady knew his face , she then began to wink , Hast lusty Butler then , quoth she , to fetch the man some drink , Give him some meat as we do eat , and drink as we do use , It is not for a Tinkers trade , good liquour to refuse . With a heigh , etc But when that he had eat and drunk , the truth of all is so , The Lady took , him by the sleeve , her Work to him to show , Set up thy tools Tinker , quoth she , and see there be none lost , And mend the Kettle handsomely , what e're it does me cost , With a heigh , etc Your Work Madam shall be well done , if you will pay me for't , For every nail that I do drive , you shall give me a mark : If I do not drive the nail to' that head , I'le have nothing for my pain , And what I receive of you , shall be return'd again . With a heigh , etc At last being come into the room , where he the Work should do , The Lady lay down on the bed , so did the Tinker too . The Tinker did his work full well , the Lady was not offended , But before that she rose from the bed , her Cauldron was well mended . With a heigh , etc But when his Work was at and end , which he did in the dark , She put her hand into her purse , and gave him twenty mark , Here's money for thy Word , said e , and I thank thee for thy pain : And when my Cauldron mending lacks , I'le send for thee again . With a heigh , etc The Tinker he was well content , for that which he had done , So took his Budget on his back , and quickly he was gone , Then the Lady to her Husband went , Oh my dear quoth she , I have set the bravest Tinker at Work , that ever you did see . With a heigh , etc No fault at all this Tinker hath but he takes dear for his Work : That little time that he wrought here it cost me twenty mark . If you had been so wise quoth he , for to have held your own , Before you set him to his Work , the price you might have known . With a heigh , etc Pray hold your peace my Lord , quoth . she , I think it not to dear , If you cold do 't so well , twould save you forty pound a year , With that the Lord most lovingly , to make all things amends , He kindly kissed his Lady gay , and so they both were friends , With a heigh , etc You merry Tinkers every one , that hear this new made Sonnet , When as you do a Ladies Work , be sure you think upon tt . Drive home your nails unto the head , and do your Work profoundly And then no doubt your Mistress's , will pay you for it soundly , With a heigh , etc Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . Room for a Jovial Tinker , Old Brass to mend . OR , Here is a Tinker full of Mettle , The which can mend , pot , pan , or Kettle ; For stopping of holes is his delight , His work goes forward day and nigh If there be any Woman brave , Whose Couldrons need of mending have ; Send for this Tinker , ne'r deny him , He'l do your work well if you try him : A proof of him , i'le forthwith show , 'Cause you his workmanship may know . The Tune is , Behold the man , etc IT was a Lady of the North , she lov'd a Gentleman , And knew not well what course to take , to use him now and then ; Wherefore she writ a Letter , and seal'd it with her hand , And bid him be a Tinker , to mend both pot and Pan : With a heigh ho heigh derry derry down , with heigh trey down down derry , And when this merry Gentleman , the Letter he did read , He god a Budget on his back , and Apron with all speed : His pretty shears and pincers , so well they did agree , With a long Pike staff upon his neck , came triping o're the Lee : With a heigh , etc When he came to the Ladies house , he knocked at the gate , Then answered this Lady gay , who knocketh there so late ? 'Tis I Madam the Tinker said , I work for Gold and Fee , If y'have any broken Pots and Pans , then bring them all to me : With a heigh , etc I Am the bravest Tinker , that lives beneath the Sun If you have any Work to do , you shall have it well done : I have brass within my Budget , and punching under my Apron , I'm come unto your Ladyship , and mean to mend your Cauldron . With a heigh ho heigh derry derry down , with a hey trey down down derry , I prithee said the Lady gay , bring now thy Budget in , I have store of work for thee to do , if thou wilt once begin . Now when the Tinker he came in , that did the Budget bear , God bless , quoth he , your Ladyship , God bless you Madam fair , With a heigh , etc But when the Lady knew his face , she then began to wink , Hast lusty Butler then , quoth she , to fetch the man some drink , Give him some meat as we do eat , and drink as we do use , It is not for a Tinkers trade , good liquour to refuse . With a heigh , etc But when that he had eat and drunk , the truth of all is so , The Lady took , him by the sleeve , her Work to him to show , Set up thy tools Tinker , quoth she , and see there be none lost , And mend the Kettle handsomely , what e're it does me cost , With a heigh , etc Your Work Madam shall be well done , if you will pay me for't , For every nail that I do drive , you shall give me a mark : If I do not drive the nail to' that head , I'le have nothing for my pain , And what I receive of you , shall be return'd again . With a heigh , etc At last being come into the room , where he the Work should do , The Lady lay down on the bed , so did the Tinker too . The Tinker did his work full well , the Lady was not offended , But before that she rose from the bed , her Cauldron was well mended . With a heigh , etc But when his Work was at and end , which he did in the dark , She put her hand into her purse , and gave him twenty mark , Here's money for thy Word , said e , and I thank thee for thy pain : And when my Cauldron mending lacks , I'le send for thee again . With a heigh , etc The Tinker he was well content , for that which he had done , So took his Budget on his back , and quickly he was gone , Then the Lady to her Husband went , Oh my dear quoth she , I have set the bravest Tinker at Work , that ever you did see . With a heigh , etc No fault at all this Tinker hath but he takes dear for his Work : That little time that he wrought here it cost me twenty mark . If you had been so wise quoth he , for to have held your own , Before you set him to his Work , the price you might have known . With a heigh , etc Pray hold your peace my Lord , quoth . she , I think it not to dear , If you cold do 't so well , twould save you forty pound a year , With that the Lord most lovingly , to make all things amends , He kindly kissed his Lady gay , and so they both were friends , With a heigh , etc You merry Tinkers every one , that hear this new made Sonnet , When as you do a Ladies Work , be sure you think upon tt . Drive home your nails unto the head , and do your Work profoundly And then no doubt your Mistress's , will pay you for it soundly , With a heigh , etc Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 