A CHOICE PENNYWORTH of WIT . HERE is a Pennyworth of Wit , For those that ever went astray ; If Warning they will take by i It will do them Good another Day . It is a Touchstone of true Love Betwixt a Harlot and a Wife , The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the Joy of Life . As in this Sheet you may behold , Put forth by one William Lane . A wealthy Merchant brave and bold , Who long a Harlot did maintain . Altho' a virtuous Wife he had , Likewise a handsome Daughter dear ; Which might make his Heart right glad . Yet them he seldom did come near . The Traffic which he traded for , On the tempestuous Ocean wide ; His Harlot had it brought to her , But nothing to his loving Bride . So the best Silks as could be bought , Nay Rubies , Jewels , Diamonds , Rings , He to his wanton Harlot brought , With many other costly Things . She still receiv'd him with a Smile , When he came from the roaring Seas . And said , with Words as smooth as Oil. My Jewel come and take thy Ease . Unto the Bed and Linen fine , You are right welcome , Love , said she , Both I , and all that here is mine Must yet at thy Devotion be . Bringing two hundred Pounds in Gold , And after that three hundred more , Rich Chains and Jewels manifold . Bidding her lay them up in store . Yes , that I will thou need'st not fear , Embr [ a ] cing him with a kind Kiss . So took the Wealth , crying , My Dear , I'll take a special Care of this . So they did banquet many a Day , Feasting upon delicious Fare : For with her false deluding Tongue She drew him in a fatal Snare . When he had liv'd some time on Shore , He must go to the Seas again , With Traffic to increase his Store , His wanton Harlot to maintain . To whom he said , my Joy , my Dear , What Venture will you with me send ; A good Return you need not fear , I'll be both Factor , and a Friend . In Goods , my Dear , now will I send Fifty Pounds with thee on board ; I know that unto me my Dear , A triple Gain you will afford . Next Day unto his Wife he goes , And ask'd her in a scornful wise , What Venture she did then propose To send by him for Merchandise ? I'll send a Penny , Love , by thee , Be sure you take good Care of i When you're in distant Parts , said she , Pray buy a Pennyworth of Wit . She put the Penny in his Hand , Crying , Pray don't forget ; When you are in another Land , To buy a Pennyworth of Wit . She put the Penny in his Hand , Crying , Pray don't forget ; When you are in another Land , To buy a Pennyworth of Wit . Putting the Penny up secure , Cries he , I'll take great Care To lay it out , you may be sure . So to his Miss he did repair . And told her , what he had to buy , When she laugh'd her to Scorn . On Board he went immediately , Unto the Sea that very Morn . PART II THIS being done , with merry Heart , The Merchant and his jovial Crew ; From Port to Port in foreign Parts , Did trade as they were wont to do . Now at length having bestow'd The Cargo that was outward bound ; He did the trading Vessel load With rich Treasure that he found . As he his Merchandise then sent , It turn'd to Gems and Golden Over ; Which crown'd his labour with Delight , He never was so rich before . The wanton Harlot's Adventure , Did turn to vast Account likewise : For every Pound she would have ten , Such was the lucky Merchandise . For Joy of which the Merchant said , One jovial Bout , my Boys , we must have One splendid Supper I'll provide Of all the Dainties we can have . Before we set to Sea again . Which said , they to a Tavern wen Where they did drink , and feast amain , Until Crowns and Pounds were spent . The Merchant by Laughter mov'd , Said , He for Wit had never sought ; My Harlot's Venture is improv'd , But of my Wife's , I never thought . One single Penny , and no more , She as a Venture sent by me ; Alas ! to lay it out therefore In what I think a Rarity . She bid me use my utmost Skill , To buy a Pennyworth of Wit ; But I have kept the Penny still , And never once did think of it . Where shall I go to lay it out ? True Wit is hard , and scarce to find : But come , my Lads , let's drink about , My Wife's Venture I'll not mind . There is a Proverb often us'd , Wit's never good , till bought full dear ; Therefore I well may be excus'd , There's little for a Penny here , And aged Father sitting by , Whose venerable Locks were gray ; Strait made the Merchant this Reply , Hear me a Word , or two , I pray : The Harlot in Prosperity , She will embrace thee for thy Gold ; But when in Want and Poverty , You shall nought but Frowns behold . And ready to betray thy Life , When naked , poor , mean , and low ; But thy truehearted loving Wife Will stand by thee in Weal and Woe . If thou would prove the Truth of this , Strip oft thy gaudy rich Array ; And so go back to thy lewd [ M ] is , Declare that thou wast cast away . Your Riches buried in the Main , Beside , as you passed through a Wood : One of your Servants you had slave , For which your Life in Danger stood . Beseech her for to shelter thee , Declare on her you do depend : And then , alas ! too soon you'll see How far she'll prove your honest Friend . Then if she frowns , go to your Wife , Show her your melancholy Theme . Who strives the most to save thy Life , Let her be most in thy Esteem . Father , the Merchant then reply'd , You must this single Penny take ; And when I've pass'd the Ocean wide , A Proof of this I mean to make . So loving Friend , for ought I know , I may this single Penny Prize , It may be the best I do bestow In my fine wealthy Merchandise . So taking Leave , away they went , Both he , and his fine Hearts of Gold ; Unto them he said , I must prove the same , When I my native Land behold . PART III . WIth full spread Sails to Sea they went , Neptune , the Golden Cargo boar Thro' roaring Waves to their Content , At last they reach'd the British Shore . The Merchant put on poor Array , The very worst of ragged Clothes : And then without the least Delay , Unto his wanton Harlot goes . When she beheld him in Distress , She said , What is the Matter now ? Said he , I'm poor and Pennyless ; And then he made a courteous Bow. Saying , No Man was e'er so crossed , As I have been , my Soul's Delight ; My Ship and all the Cargo's lost , And now I'm ruin'd quite . My Loss is great , yet that's not all , One of my Servants I have slave : As we did both at Variance fallen , Some Shelter let me here obtain . I dare not go unto my Wife , Whom I have wrong'd so many Years ; Into your Hands I've put my Life , Take pity on my moving Tears . You bloody Villain , she reply'd , Don't the least on me depend ; Be gone , or as I live , she said , I for and Officer will send . I'll give you neither Meat , nor Drink , Nor any Shelter shall you have ; Of nasty filthy Rags you stink , Be gone , you base , and cruel Knave . Don't think I can your Counsel keep , Or Shelter any such as you : He turn'd about , and seem'd to weep , And bid the wanton Whore adieu . Then to his loving Wife he came , Both poor , and naked , in Distress ; He told to her the very same , Yet she reliev'd him ne'ertheless . My Dear , said she , since it is so , Take Comfort in thy loving Wife ; All that I have , shall freely go , To gain a Pardon for thy Life . I'll lodge thee in a Place secure , Where I will daily nourish thee ; Believe me , Love , thou may'st be sure , To find a constant Friend in me . When he this perfect Proof had made , Which of them two did love him best ; Unto his virtuous Wife he said , My Jewel set thy Heart at Rest. Behold no Servant have I slave , Nor have I suffer'd any Loss ; Enough I have us to maintain , The Ocean Seas no more I'll cross . My laden Ship lies near the Shore , With Gold and Jewels richly fraught ; So much I never had before , Thy Pennyworth of Wit I've bought . Once more unto his Harlot goes , With fourteen Sailors brave and bold ; Clothed in new , and costly Robes Of Silk , and rich embroider'd Gold . The Miss when she his Pomp beheld , Did offer him a kind Embrace ; But he with Wrath and Anger fill'd , Did strait upbraid her in her Face . But she with Smiles these Words expressed , I have a constant Love for thee : And what I said , was but in Jest , Why did you run so fast from me ? 'Twas Time to go , as I am told , You have another Love id Store ; Whom you have furnish'd with my Gold , And Jewels which I brought on Shore . 'Tis false , she said , I have them all . With that , the Merchant then reply'd , Bring them to me , and then I shall A CHOICE PENNYWORTH of WIT . HERE is a Pennyworth of Wit , For those that ever went astray ; If Warning they will take by i It will do them Good another Day . It is a Touchstone of true Love Betwixt a Harlot and a Wife , The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the Joy of Life . As in this Sheet you may behold , Put forth by one William Lane . A wealthy Merchant brave and bold , Who long a Harlot did maintain . Altho' a virtuous Wife he had , Likewise a handsome Daughter dear ; Which might make his Heart right glad . Yet them he seldom did come near . The Traffic which he traded for , On the tempestuous Ocean wide ; His Harlot had it brought to her , But nothing to his loving Bride . So the best Silks as could be bought , Nay Rubies , Jewels , Diamonds , Rings , He to his wanton Harlot brought , With many other costly Things . She still receiv'd him with a Smile , When he came from the roaring Seas . And said , with Words as smooth as Oil. My Jewel come and take thy Ease . Unto the Bed and Linen fine , You are right welcome , Love , said she , Both I , and all that here is mine Must yet at thy Devotion be . Bringing two hundred Pounds in Gold , And after that three hundred more , Rich Chains and Jewels manifold . Bidding her lay them up in store . Yes , that I will thou need'st not fear , Embr [ a ] cing him with a kind Kiss . So took the Wealth , crying , My Dear , I'll take a special Care of this . So they did banquet many a Day , Feasting upon delicious Fare : For with her false deluding Tongue She drew him in a fatal Snare . When he had liv'd some time on Shore , He must go to the Seas again , With Traffic to increase his Store , His wanton Harlot to maintain . To whom he said , my Joy , my Dear , What Venture will you with me send ; A good Return you need not fear , I'll be both Factor , and a Friend . In Goods , my Dear , now will I send Fifty Pounds with thee on board ; I know that unto me my Dear , A triple Gain you will afford . Next Day unto his Wife he goes , And ask'd her in a scornful wise , What Venture she did then propose To send by him for Merchandise ? I'll send a Penny , Love , by thee , Be sure you take good Care of i When you're in distant Parts , said she , Pray buy a Pennyworth of Wit . She put the Penny in his Hand , Crying , Pray don't forget ; When you are in another Land , To buy a Pennyworth of Wit . She put the Penny in his Hand , Crying , Pray don't forget ; When you are in another Land , To buy a Pennyworth of Wit . Putting the Penny up secure , Cries he , I'll take great Care To lay it out , you may be sure . So to his Miss he did repair . And told her , what he had to buy , When she laugh'd her to Scorn . On Board he went immediately , Unto the Sea that very Morn . PART II THIS being done , with merry Heart , The Merchant and his jovial Crew ; From Port to Port in foreign Parts , Did trade as they were wont to do . Now at length having bestow'd The Cargo that was outward bound ; He did the trading Vessel load With rich Treasure that he found . As he his Merchandise then sent , It turn'd to Gems and Golden Over ; Which crown'd his labour with Delight , He never was so rich before . The wanton Harlot's Adventure , Did turn to vast Account likewise : For every Pound she would have ten , Such was the lucky Merchandise . For Joy of which the Merchant said , One jovial Bout , my Boys , we must have One splendid Supper I'll provide Of all the Dainties we can have . Before we set to Sea again . Which said , they to a Tavern wen Where they did drink , and feast amain , Until Crowns and Pounds were spent . The Merchant by Laughter mov'd , Said , He for Wit had never sought ; My Harlot's Venture is improv'd , But of my Wife's , I never thought . One single Penny , and no more , She as a Venture sent by me ; Alas ! to lay it out therefore In what I think a Rarity . She bid me use my utmost Skill , To buy a Pennyworth of Wit ; But I have kept the Penny still , And never once did think of it . Where shall I go to lay it out ? True Wit is hard , and scarce to find : But come , my Lads , let's drink about , My Wife's Venture I'll not mind . There is a Proverb often us'd , Wit's never good , till bought full dear ; Therefore I well may be excus'd , There's little for a Penny here , And aged Father sitting by , Whose venerable Locks were gray ; Strait made the Merchant this Reply , Hear me a Word , or two , I pray : The Harlot in Prosperity , She will embrace thee for thy Gold ; But when in Want and Poverty , You shall nought but Frowns behold . And ready to betray thy Life , When naked , poor , mean , and low ; But thy truehearted loving Wife Will stand by thee in Weal and Woe . If thou would prove the Truth of this , Strip oft thy gaudy rich Array ; And so go back to thy lewd [ M ] is , Declare that thou wast cast away . Your Riches buried in the Main , Beside , as you passed through a Wood : One of your Servants you had slave , For which your Life in Danger stood . Beseech her for to shelter thee , Declare on her you do depend : And then , alas ! too soon you'll see How far she'll prove your honest Friend . Then if she frowns , go to your Wife , Show her your melancholy Theme . Who strives the most to save thy Life , Let her be most in thy Esteem . Father , the Merchant then reply'd , You must this single Penny take ; And when I've pass'd the Ocean wide , A Proof of this I mean to make . So loving Friend , for ought I know , I may this single Penny Prize , It may be the best I do bestow In my fine wealthy Merchandise . So taking Leave , away they went , Both he , and his fine Hearts of Gold ; Unto them he said , I must prove the same , When I my native Land behold . PART III . WIth full spread Sails to Sea they went , Neptune , the Golden Cargo boar Thro' roaring Waves to their Content , At last they reach'd the British Shore . The Merchant put on poor Array , The very worst of ragged Clothes : And then without the least Delay , Unto his wanton Harlot goes . When she beheld him in Distress , She said , What is the Matter now ? Said he , I'm poor and Pennyless ; And then he made a courteous Bow. Saying , No Man was e'er so crossed , As I have been , my Soul's Delight ; My Ship and all the Cargo's lost , And now I'm ruin'd quite . My Loss is great , yet that's not all , One of my Servants I have slave : As we did both at Variance fallen , Some Shelter let me here obtain . I dare not go unto my Wife , Whom I have wrong'd so many Years ; Into your Hands I've put my Life , Take pity on my moving Tears . You bloody Villain , she reply'd , Don't the least on me depend ; Be gone , or as I live , she said , I for and Officer will send . I'll give you neither Meat , nor Drink , Nor any Shelter shall you have ; Of nasty filthy Rags you stink , Be gone , you base , and cruel Knave . Don't think I can your Counsel keep , Or Shelter any such as you : He turn'd about , and seem'd to weep , And bid the wanton Whore adieu . Then to his loving Wife he came , Both poor , and naked , in Distress ; He told to her the very same , Yet she reliev'd him ne'ertheless . My Dear , said she , since it is so , Take Comfort in thy loving Wife ; All that I have , shall freely go , To gain a Pardon for thy Life . I'll lodge thee in a Place secure , Where I will daily nourish thee ; Believe me , Love , thou may'st be sure , To find a constant Friend in me . When he this perfect Proof had made , Which of them two did love him best ; Unto his virtuous Wife he said , My Jewel set thy Heart at Rest. Behold no Servant have I slave , Nor have I suffer'd any Loss ; Enough I have us to maintain , The Ocean Seas no more I'll cross . My laden Ship lies near the Shore , With Gold and Jewels richly fraught ; So much I never had before , Thy Pennyworth of Wit I've bought . Once more unto his Harlot goes , With fourteen Sailors brave and bold ; Clothed in new , and costly Robes Of Silk , and rich embroider'd Gold . The Miss when she his Pomp beheld , Did offer him a kind Embrace ; But he with Wrath and Anger fill'd , Did strait upbraid her in her Face . But she with Smiles these Words expressed , I have a constant Love for thee : And what I said , was but in Jest , Why did you run so fast from me ? 'Twas Time to go , as I am told , You have another Love id Store ; Whom you have furnish'd with my Gold , And Jewels which I brought on Shore . 'Tis false , she said , I have them all . With that , the Merchant then reply'd , Bring them to me , and then I shall Be soon convinc'd , and satisfy'd . Then up she ran , and brought them down , His Jewels , and Diamonds bright ; He seiz'd them all , and with a Frown , He bid the wanton Jilt Good night . When he had took the Golden Prize , And swept up every precious Stone , She said , What will you rob me thus ? Yes , that I will , of what's my own . You wanted to betray my Life , But thanks to God there's no such Fear : These Jewels shall adorn my Wife , Henceforth your House I'll not come near . Home he returned to his Wife , And told her all that he had done . E'er since they led a happy Life , He does no more to Harlots run . Tne he the wanton Harlot bit , That long had his Destruction sought . This is a Pennyworth of Wit , The best that ever Merchant bought . Printed and Sold in Bow-church Yard , London . Be soon convinc'd , and satisfy'd . Then up she ran , and brought them down , His Jewels , and Diamonds bright ; He seiz'd them all , and with a Frown , He bid the wanton Jilt Good night . When he had took the Golden Prize , And swept up every precious Stone , She said , What will you rob me thus ? Yes , that I will , of what's my own . You wanted to betray my Life , But thanks to God there's no such Fear : These Jewels shall adorn my Wife , Henceforth your House I'll not come near . Home he returned to his Wife , And told her all that he had done . E'er since they led a happy Life , He does no more to Harlots run . Tne he the wanton Harlot bit , That long had his Destruction sought . This is a Pennyworth of Wit , The best that ever Merchant bought . Printed and Sold in Bow-church Yard , London . 