A Choice Pennyworth of WITH OR , A clear Distinction between a Virtuous Wife and a Wanton Harlot . HERE is a pennyworth of Wit , For those that e [ v ] er went astray , If warning they will take by it , 'Twill do them good another day . It is the touchstone of true love , Between a Harlot and a wife ; The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the joys of life . As in this book you may behold , Set forth by William Lane , A wealthy merchant breve and bold Who did a harlot long maintain . Although a virtuous wife he had , Likewise a youthful daughter dear , Which might have made his heart full glad Yet them he never would come near The traffic which he traded for , On the tempestuous ocean wide , His harlot had it brought to her , But nothing to his virtuou [ s ] wife . The finest silk that could be bought Nay jewels , rubies diamond rings , He to his wanton harlot brought With many other costly things She'd still receive him with a smile , When he came from the roaring sea And said , with words as smoo [ tO ] h as oil , My dearest come and take your ease , To my soft bed and linen fine , Thou art right welcome love said she , Both I and all that e'er is mine . Shall still at thy devotion be He brought two hundred pounds in gold And after that three hundred more , With chains and jewels manifold , And bid her lay them up in store . Love . that I will thou need'st not fear , And so embraced with kiss ; She took the wealth , and said my dear , I'll take a speeial care of this . So they did banquet many days , Living upon delicious cheer ; Till by her false deluding ways She drew him in a fatal snare . When he had liv'd some time on shore , Then he must to the seas again , With traffic to increase his store , The wanton harlot to maintain . To whom he said my joy , my dear , With me what venture will you send ; A good return you need not fear , I'll be your factor and your friend . In goods my dear I'll sebd above [ TO ] en pounds which you shall take on boar [ worser ] I know that unto me my love , A triple gain thou wilt afford , This said , next to his wife he goes , And ask'd her in a scornful wise , What venture then she did propose , To send by him for merchandise . I'll send a penny love by thee , ( Be sure you take grea [ tO ] care of it ) When you are in foreign parts said she , To buy a penny worth of wit . She laid the penny in his hand , And said' pray now doubt forget , When you are in a foreign land , To but a penny worth of wit - He put the penny up secure And said I'll take a special care , To lay it out you may be sure [ S ] oh to his miss he did repair , And told what he had to buy , At which he laugh'd his wife to scorn , On board he went immediately , And so to sea that very morn . Now they are gone with merry hearts , The merchant and his jovial crew , From port to port in foreign parts , To trade , as they we [ r ] e wont to do . At last when they had well bestow'd , The cargo which was outward bound , They did their trading vessel load , With richer treasure which they found . As he his merchandise did vent He turn'd all to Gems and golden over , Which crown [ ' ] worser his labours with content , He never was so rich before . The wanton harlot's venture then Did turn to great account likewise , For every pound she would have ten , Such was their lucky merchandise : For joy of which the merchant cry'd , One merry bout my lads shall have , A splendid supper I'll provide , Of all the dainties you can crave . Before we put to sea again , [ TO ] his said , they to a tavern went , [ W ] here they did eat and drink amain , [ TO ] ill many crowns & pounds were spent . The merchant then with laughter movd' [ Sa ] id he for wit had never fought ; My harlot's venture is improv'd , [ But ] tO of my wife's I never thought . One single pcney and no more , [ S ] he has a venture sent by me , [ I ] was to lay it out therefore , [ In ] what you call a rarity . She bid me use my utmost skill , [ TO ] oh buy a penny worth of wit ? [ B ] ut I have kept the penny still , [ A ] and ne [ ' ] er so much as thought of it . Where shall I go to lay it out , [ S ] ince wit is hard and scarce to find : [ B ] ut come my lads , and drink about , My wife's small venture I'll not mind . There is a proverb often us'd , That wit [ ' ] s not good till bought full dear , Wheeefore I may be well excus'd , There's little for a penny here . And aged father sitting by . Whose venerable locks were gray , Strait made the merchant this reply : Hear me a word or two I pray . The harlot in prosperity , Will then embrace you for your gold , But when in want and poverty , You'll nought from her but frowns behold And ready to betray thy life When naked , wretched , poor and low , But thy true hearted faithful wife , Will stand by thee in wealth or woe . If thou wilt prove the truth of this Strip off thy gaudy rich array , And to return to your lewd miss , Declare that you was cast away . Your riches bury'd in the main , Reside as you passed through a wood , One of your servants you had slave ; For which your life in danger stood . Beseech her for to shelter thee ; Tell her on her you do depend , And then alas ! you soon will see , How far she'll prove a faithful friend . Then if she frowns , go to thy wife , Tell her this melancholy theme : Who labours most to soon thy life , Let her be most in thy esteem . Father , the Merchant then reply'd , You must this single penny take ; And when I've passed the ocean wide , A proof of this I mean to make . And loving friends , for ought I know I may thls single penny prize , The best I ever did bestow In all my wealthy merchandise . Taking his leave away he went , Both he and his brave hearts of gold , To whom he said I'll prove the same , When I my native land behold With full spread sails to sea they went , Neptune the golden cargo boar O'er foaming waves , to their conten At length they reach [ ' ] worser the British shore . The merchant put on poor array , The very worst of ragged clothes ; And then without the least delay , He to the wanton harlot goes When she beheld him in distress , She ery'd , what is the matter now ? Said he , I'm poor and pennyless With that he made a courteous bow Crying snre man was ne [ ' ] er so crossed As I have been my heart's deligtt ; My ship and all my cargo's lost , Without your aid I'm ruin'd quite . My loss is great yet that's not all , One of my servants I have slave , As we did both at varance fallen ; Some shelter let me here obtain . I dare not go unto my wife , Whom I have wronged many years ; Into thy hands I put my life , Take pity of my melting tears . You bloody villain she reply'd . Don't in the least on me depend ; Be gone or as I live she cry'd , I for and officer will send I'll neither give you bred nor drink Nor any shelter shall you have : Of nasty lousy rags you stink , Be gone you base perfidious slave . Doubt think that I'll your counsel keep Or harbour any such as you , With that be turn'd & seem'd to weep And bid the wanton jilt adieu , Then to his loving wife he goes Both poor and naked , in distress , He told her all the very same , Yet she receiv'd him nevertheless . My dear said she since it is so , Take comfort in thy loving wife ; All that I have shall freely go , To gain a pardon for thy life : I'll lodge thee in a place secure , Where I will daily nourish thee , Believe me love thou may [ ' ] st be sure To find a faithful friend in me . When he this perfect proof had made Which of the two did love him best , Unto his virtuous wife he said , My jewel set your heart at rest . Behold no servant have I slave , Nor have I suffered any loss , Enough I have us to maintain ; The ocean seas no more I'll cross , My loaded ship lies near the shore , With gold and jewels richly fraught , So much I never had before ? Thy penny worth of wit I've bought . Once more he to his harlot goes , With fourteen sailors brave and boid , All cloth [ ' ] worser in new and costly clothes , Of silks and rich embroidered gold . The miss , when she his pomp beheld Did offer him a kind embrace ? But he with wrath and anger fill'd , Did strait upbraid her to her face . But she with smiles these words expressed , I have a faithful love for thee , Whate [ ' ] er I said was but in jest ; Why didst thou go so soon from me . It time to go for as I'm told , You have another love in store , Whom you have furnish'd with my gold , And jewels which I brought on shore . This false she cry'd I have them all . With that the merchant then repl A Choice Pennyworth of WITH OR , A clear Distinction between a Virtuous Wife and a Wanton Harlot . HERE is a pennyworth of Wit , For those that e [ v ] er went astray , If warning they will take by it , 'Twill do them good another day . It is the touchstone of true love , Between a Harlot and a wife ; The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the joys of life . As in this book you may behold , Set forth by William Lane , A wealthy merchant breve and bold Who did a harlot long maintain . Although a virtuous wife he had , Likewise a youthful daughter dear , Which might have made his heart full glad Yet them he never would come near The traffic which he traded for , On the tempestuous ocean wide , His harlot had it brought to her , But nothing to his virtuou [ s ] wife . The finest silk that could be bought Nay jewels , rubies diamond rings , He to his wanton harlot brought With many other costly things She'd still receive him with a smile , When he came from the roaring sea And said , with words as smoo [ tO ] h as oil , My dearest come and take your ease , To my soft bed and linen fine , Thou art right welcome love said she , Both I and all that e'er is mine . Shall still at thy devotion be He brought two hundred pounds in gold And after that three hundred more , With chains and jewels manifold , And bid her lay them up in store . Love . that I will thou need'st not fear , And so embraced with kiss ; She took the wealth , and said my dear , I'll take a speeial care of this . So they did banquet many days , Living upon delicious cheer ; Till by her false deluding ways She drew him in a fatal snare . When he had liv'd some time on shore , Then he must to the seas again , With traffic to increase his store , The wanton harlot to maintain . To whom he said my joy , my dear , With me what venture will you send ; A good return you need not fear , I'll be your factor and your friend . In goods my dear I'll sebd above [ TO ] en pounds which you shall take on boar [ worser ] I know that unto me my love , A triple gain thou wilt afford , This said , next to his wife he goes , And ask'd her in a scornful wise , What venture then she did propose , To send by him for merchandise . I'll send a penny love by thee , ( Be sure you take grea [ tO ] care of it ) When you are in foreign parts said she , To buy a penny worth of wit . She laid the penny in his hand , And said' pray now doubt forget , When you are in a foreign land , To but a penny worth of wit - He put the penny up secure And said I'll take a special care , To lay it out you may be sure [ S ] oh to his miss he did repair , And told what he had to buy , At which he laugh'd his wife to scorn , On board he went immediately , And so to sea that very morn . Now they are gone with merry hearts , The merchant and his jovial crew , From port to port in foreign parts , To trade , as they we [ r ] e wont to do . At last when they had well bestow'd , The cargo which was outward bound , They did their trading vessel load , With richer treasure which they found . As he his merchandise did vent He turn'd all to Gems and golden over , Which crown [ ' ] worser his labours with content , He never was so rich before . The wanton harlot's venture then Did turn to great account likewise , For every pound she would have ten , Such was their lucky merchandise : For joy of which the merchant cry'd , One merry bout my lads shall have , A splendid supper I'll provide , Of all the dainties you can crave . Before we put to sea again , [ TO ] his said , they to a tavern went , [ W ] here they did eat and drink amain , [ TO ] ill many crowns & pounds were spent . The merchant then with laughter movd' [ Sa ] id he for wit had never fought ; My harlot's venture is improv'd , [ But ] tO of my wife's I never thought . One single pcney and no more , [ S ] he has a venture sent by me , [ I ] was to lay it out therefore , [ In ] what you call a rarity . She bid me use my utmost skill , [ TO ] oh buy a penny worth of wit ? [ B ] ut I have kept the penny still , [ A ] and ne [ ' ] er so much as thought of it . Where shall I go to lay it out , [ S ] ince wit is hard and scarce to find : [ B ] ut come my lads , and drink about , My wife's small venture I'll not mind . There is a proverb often us'd , That wit [ ' ] s not good till bought full dear , Wheeefore I may be well excus'd , There's little for a penny here . And aged father sitting by . Whose venerable locks were gray , Strait made the merchant this reply : Hear me a word or two I pray . The harlot in prosperity , Will then embrace you for your gold , But when in want and poverty , You'll nought from her but frowns behold And ready to betray thy life When naked , wretched , poor and low , But thy true hearted faithful wife , Will stand by thee in wealth or woe . If thou wilt prove the truth of this Strip off thy gaudy rich array , And to return to your lewd miss , Declare that you was cast away . Your riches bury'd in the main , Reside as you passed through a wood , One of your servants you had slave ; For which your life in danger stood . Beseech her for to shelter thee ; Tell her on her you do depend , And then alas ! you soon will see , How far she'll prove a faithful friend . Then if she frowns , go to thy wife , Tell her this melancholy theme : Who labours most to soon thy life , Let her be most in thy esteem . Father , the Merchant then reply'd , You must this single penny take ; And when I've passed the ocean wide , A proof of this I mean to make . And loving friends , for ought I know I may thls single penny prize , The best I ever did bestow In all my wealthy merchandise . Taking his leave away he went , Both he and his brave hearts of gold , To whom he said I'll prove the same , When I my native land behold With full spread sails to sea they went , Neptune the golden cargo boar O'er foaming waves , to their conten At length they reach [ ' ] worser the British shore . The merchant put on poor array , The very worst of ragged clothes ; And then without the least delay , He to the wanton harlot goes When she beheld him in distress , She ery'd , what is the matter now ? Said he , I'm poor and pennyless With that he made a courteous bow Crying snre man was ne [ ' ] er so crossed As I have been my heart's deligtt ; My ship and all my cargo's lost , Without your aid I'm ruin'd quite . My loss is great yet that's not all , One of my servants I have slave , As we did both at varance fallen ; Some shelter let me here obtain . I dare not go unto my wife , Whom I have wronged many years ; Into thy hands I put my life , Take pity of my melting tears . You bloody villain she reply'd . Don't in the least on me depend ; Be gone or as I live she cry'd , I for and officer will send I'll neither give you bred nor drink Nor any shelter shall you have : Of nasty lousy rags you stink , Be gone you base perfidious slave . Doubt think that I'll your counsel keep Or harbour any such as you , With that be turn'd & seem'd to weep And bid the wanton jilt adieu , Then to his loving wife he goes Both poor and naked , in distress , He told her all the very same , Yet she receiv'd him nevertheless . My dear said she since it is so , Take comfort in thy loving wife ; All that I have shall freely go , To gain a pardon for thy life : I'll lodge thee in a place secure , Where I will daily nourish thee , Believe me love thou may [ ' ] st be sure To find a faithful friend in me . When he this perfect proof had made Which of the two did love him best , Unto his virtuous wife he said , My jewel set your heart at rest . Behold no servant have I slave , Nor have I suffered any loss , Enough I have us to maintain ; The ocean seas no more I'll cross , My loaded ship lies near the shore , With gold and jewels richly fraught , So much I never had before ? Thy penny worth of wit I've bought . Once more he to his harlot goes , With fourteen sailors brave and boid , All cloth [ ' ] worser in new and costly clothes , Of silks and rich embroidered gold . The miss , when she his pomp beheld Did offer him a kind embrace ? But he with wrath and anger fill'd , Did strait upbraid her to her face . But she with smiles these words expressed , I have a faithful love for thee , Whate [ ' ] er I said was but in jest ; Why didst thou go so soon from me . It time to go for as I'm told , You have another love in store , Whom you have furnish'd with my gold , And jewels which I brought on shore . This false she cry'd I have them all . With that the merchant then reply'd , Lay them before me and I shall Be soon convinc'd and satisfy'd Then up she run & fetch'd them down , His jewels gold and diamonds bright ; He seiz'd them all , then with frown He bid the wanton jilt good night When he had took the golden purse , And swept up every precious stone She cry'd what will you rob me then ? Yes , that I will of what's my own . You wanted to betray my life , But thanks to God there's no such fear ? These jewels shall adorn my wife , Henceforth your house I'll not come near Home he returned to his wife , And told her all that he had done , E [ ' ] er since they led a quiet Life , And he no more to harlots run . Thus he the wanton harlot bit , Who long had his destruction sought . This was the penny worth of wit The best that ever merchant bought . Worcester : Printed by J B [ u ] tler , and sold by James Grundy , Goose Lane , and by G. Lewis , Broad Street . y'd , Lay them before me and I shall Be soon convinc'd and satisfy'd Then up she run & fetch'd them down , His jewels gold and diamonds bright ; He seiz'd them all , then with frown He bid the wanton jilt good night When he had took the golden purse , And swept up every precious stone She cry'd what will you rob me then ? Yes , that I will of what's my own . You wanted to betray my life , But thanks to God there's no such fear ? These jewels shall adorn my wife , Henceforth your house I'll not come near Home he returned to his wife , And told her all that he had done , E [ ' ] er since they led a quiet Life , And he no more to harlots run . Thus he the wanton harlot bit , Who long had his destruction sought . This was the penny worth of wit The best that ever merchant bought . Worcester : Printed by J B [ u ] tler , and sold by James Grundy , Goose Lane , and by G. Lewis , Broad Street . 