THE CRUEL KNIGHT . Or , the Fortunate Farmer's Daughter . IN famous York City a farmer did dwell , Who was belov'd by his neighbours well , He had a wife that was virtuous and fair , And by her he had a young child ev'ry year . In seven years time six children he had , Which made their parents hearts full glad ; But in a short time , as we did hear say , The farmer in wealth and stock did decay . Tho' that once he had riches in store , In a little time he grew very poor , He strove all he could , but , alas ! could not thrive , He hardly could keep his children alive . The children came faster than silver or gold , For his wife conceiv'd again as we are told , And when the time came , in labour she fell , But if you will mind , and odd story I'll tell . A noble rich knight by chance did ride by , And hearing this woman to shriek and cry , He being well learn'd in the planets and signs , Did look in his book , which puzzled his mind . For the more he did look , the more he did read , And found that fate the child had decreed , Who was born in that house the very same tide , He found it was she that must be his bride . But judge how the knight was disturbed in mind , When he in that book his fortune did find , He quickly road home , and was sorely oppress'd , From that sad moment he could take no rest . At night he did toss and tumble in his bed , And very strange projects came into his head , Then he resolv'd and soon try'd indeed , To altar the fortune he found was decreed . With a vexing heart next morning he 'rose , And to the house of the farmer he goes , And ask'd the man , with a heart full of spite , If the child was alive that was born the last night ? Worthy sir , said the farmer , although I am poor , I had one born last night , and six born before , Four sons and three daughters I now have alive , They are all in good health and likely to thrive . The knight reply'd , if that seven you have , Let me have the youngest , I'll keep it most brave , For you very well one daughter may spare , And when I die I'll make her my heir . For I am a knight of a noble degree , And if you will part with your child unto me , Full three thousand pounds I'll unto thee give , When I from your hands your daughter receive . The father and mother with tears in their eyes , Did hear this kind offer , and were in a surprise , And seeing the knight was so noble and gay , Presented the infant unto him that day . But they spoke to him with words most mild , We beseech thee , good sir , be kind to our child , You need not mind , the knight he did say , I will maintain her both gallant and gay . So with this sweet babe away he did ride , Until he came to a broad river's side , Being cruelly bent , he resolved indeed , To drown the young infant that day with speed . Saying , if you live , you must be my wife , So I am resolved to bereave you of life , For till you are dead , I no comfort can have , Therefore you shall lie in a watery grave . In saying of this , that moment , they say , He flung the babe into the river straigtway , And being well pleas'd , when this he had done , He leap'd on his horse , and straight he road home . But mind how good fortune for her did provide , She was drove right on her back by the tide , Where a man was a fishing , as fortune would have , When she was floating along with the waves . He took her up , but was in amaze , He kiss'd her , he press'd her , and on her did gaze , And he never having a child in his life , He straightway did carry her home to his wife . His wife was pleased the child for to see , And said , my dear husband , be ruled by me , Since we have no child , if you'll let me alone , We will keep this , and nurse it , and call it our own . The good man consented , as we have been told , And spared for neither silver nor gold : Until she was eleven full years , And then her beauty began to appear . The fisherman was one day at and inn , And several gentlemen drinking with him , His wife sent this girl to call her husband home , But when she into the drinking room come , The gentlemen there were amazed to see , The fisherman's daughter so full of beauty , They ask'd him then , if she was his own , And he told them the story before he went home . As I was a fishing , within my own bounds , One Monday morning , this sweet babe I found , Or else she had laid in a watery grave , And this was the account which he then gave . The cruel knight was in the company , And hearing the fisherman tell his story , He was vex'd at the heart to see her alive , And how to destroy her he again did contrive . Then spoke the knight , and unto him said , If you will but part with this sweet maid , I'll give you whatever your heart can devise , For she in time to great riches may rise . The fisherman answer'd , with a modest grace , I cannot unless my dear were in the place , Get first her consent , you shall have mine of me . And then to go with you , sir , she is free . The wife she did also as freely consent , But little they thought of his intent , He kept her a month very bravely , they say , And then he contrived to send her away . [ He had a great brother in Lancashire A noble man worth ten thousand a year ] A [ and he sent this girl unto him wit ] h spe [ ed ] In hope's he would act a most cruel deed . He sent a man with her likewise , they say , But as they did lodge at and inn on the way , A thief in the house with and evil intent , To rob the portmanteau immediately went . But the thief was amaz'd when he could not find , Neither silver nor gold , nor ought to his mind , But only a letter , the which he did read , And soon put and end to this tragical deed . The knight had wrote to his brother that day , To make this poor innocent damsel away With sword or with poison that very same night , And not let her live till morning light . The thief read the letter , and had so much grace , To tear it , and wrote in the very same place , Dear brother , receive this maiden from me , And bring her up well as a maiden should be . Let her be esteemed , dear brother , I pray , Let servants attend her by night and by day , For she is a lady of noble worth , A nobler lady ne'er liv'd in the North . Let her have good learning , dear brother , I pray , And for the same I'll sufficiently pay , And so , loving brother , this letter I send , Subscribing myself your dear brother and friend . The servant and maid were still innocent , And onward their journey next day they went , Before sunset to the knight's house they came , Where the servant left her and came home again , The girl was attended most nobly indeed , With the servants to attend her with speed , Where she did continue a twelvemonths space , 'Till this cruel knight came to this place . As he and his brother together did talk , He 'spy'd the young maid in the garden to walk , She look'd most beautiful , pleasant and gay , Like to sweet Aurora , or the goddess of May . He was in a passion when her he did spy , This knight could have kill'd her if he had been nigh , Did you not do as in the letter I writ ? His brother reply'd it is done ev'ry bit . No , no , said the knight , it is not so I see , Therefore she shall back again go with me . But his brother shew'd him the letter that day , Then he was amaz'd , but nothing did say , Soon after the knight took this maiden away , And with her did ride till they came to the sea , Then looking upon her with anger and spite , He spoke to this maiden and bid her alight . The maid from the horse immediately went , And trembling to think what was his intent , Ne'er tremble , said he , for this hour is your last , So pull off your clothes , I command you in haste . This virgin , with tears , on her knees did reply , Oh! what have I done , sir , that now I must die ? Oh! let me but know how I offend , I'll study each hour to make you amends . Ah! spare my life , and I'll wander forlorn , And never come near you while I have breath , He hearing the pitiful moan she did make , Straight from his finger a ring he did take . [ He then to this maiden these words he did say , This ring into the water I'll now throw away ; Pray look on it well for the posy is plain ; Than ] tO you [ when you see it you may know it again , ] I charge [ e you for life never come in my sighed , ] For if you do [ I sh ] all [ l oh ] w [ e you a spite ] Unless you do bring the [ same unto ] m [ e . ] With that he let the ring worser [ eep into ] the [ sea . ] Which when he would THE CRUEL KNIGHT . Or , the Fortunate Farmer's Daughter . IN famous York City a farmer did dwell , Who was belov'd by his neighbours well , He had a wife that was virtuous and fair , And by her he had a young child ev'ry year . In seven years time six children he had , Which made their parents hearts full glad ; But in a short time , as we did hear say , The farmer in wealth and stock did decay . Tho' that once he had riches in store , In a little time he grew very poor , He strove all he could , but , alas ! could not thrive , He hardly could keep his children alive . The children came faster than silver or gold , For his wife conceiv'd again as we are told , And when the time came , in labour she fell , But if you will mind , and odd story I'll tell . A noble rich knight by chance did ride by , And hearing this woman to shriek and cry , He being well learn'd in the planets and signs , Did look in his book , which puzzled his mind . For the more he did look , the more he did read , And found that fate the child had decreed , Who was born in that house the very same tide , He found it was she that must be his bride . But judge how the knight was disturbed in mind , When he in that book his fortune did find , He quickly road home , and was sorely oppress'd , From that sad moment he could take no rest . At night he did toss and tumble in his bed , And very strange projects came into his head , Then he resolv'd and soon try'd indeed , To altar the fortune he found was decreed . With a vexing heart next morning he 'rose , And to the house of the farmer he goes , And ask'd the man , with a heart full of spite , If the child was alive that was born the last night ? Worthy sir , said the farmer , although I am poor , I had one born last night , and six born before , Four sons and three daughters I now have alive , They are all in good health and likely to thrive . The knight reply'd , if that seven you have , Let me have the youngest , I'll keep it most brave , For you very well one daughter may spare , And when I die I'll make her my heir . For I am a knight of a noble degree , And if you will part with your child unto me , Full three thousand pounds I'll unto thee give , When I from your hands your daughter receive . The father and mother with tears in their eyes , Did hear this kind offer , and were in a surprise , And seeing the knight was so noble and gay , Presented the infant unto him that day . But they spoke to him with words most mild , We beseech thee , good sir , be kind to our child , You need not mind , the knight he did say , I will maintain her both gallant and gay . So with this sweet babe away he did ride , Until he came to a broad river's side , Being cruelly bent , he resolved indeed , To drown the young infant that day with speed . Saying , if you live , you must be my wife , So I am resolved to bereave you of life , For till you are dead , I no comfort can have , Therefore you shall lie in a watery grave . In saying of this , that moment , they say , He flung the babe into the river straigtway , And being well pleas'd , when this he had done , He leap'd on his horse , and straight he road home . But mind how good fortune for her did provide , She was drove right on her back by the tide , Where a man was a fishing , as fortune would have , When she was floating along with the waves . He took her up , but was in amaze , He kiss'd her , he press'd her , and on her did gaze , And he never having a child in his life , He straightway did carry her home to his wife . His wife was pleased the child for to see , And said , my dear husband , be ruled by me , Since we have no child , if you'll let me alone , We will keep this , and nurse it , and call it our own . The good man consented , as we have been told , And spared for neither silver nor gold : Until she was eleven full years , And then her beauty began to appear . The fisherman was one day at and inn , And several gentlemen drinking with him , His wife sent this girl to call her husband home , But when she into the drinking room come , The gentlemen there were amazed to see , The fisherman's daughter so full of beauty , They ask'd him then , if she was his own , And he told them the story before he went home . As I was a fishing , within my own bounds , One Monday morning , this sweet babe I found , Or else she had laid in a watery grave , And this was the account which he then gave . The cruel knight was in the company , And hearing the fisherman tell his story , He was vex'd at the heart to see her alive , And how to destroy her he again did contrive . Then spoke the knight , and unto him said , If you will but part with this sweet maid , I'll give you whatever your heart can devise , For she in time to great riches may rise . The fisherman answer'd , with a modest grace , I cannot unless my dear were in the place , Get first her consent , you shall have mine of me . And then to go with you , sir , she is free . The wife she did also as freely consent , But little they thought of his intent , He kept her a month very bravely , they say , And then he contrived to send her away . [ He had a great brother in Lancashire A noble man worth ten thousand a year ] A [ and he sent this girl unto him wit ] h spe [ ed ] In hope's he would act a most cruel deed . He sent a man with her likewise , they say , But as they did lodge at and inn on the way , A thief in the house with and evil intent , To rob the portmanteau immediately went . But the thief was amaz'd when he could not find , Neither silver nor gold , nor ought to his mind , But only a letter , the which he did read , And soon put and end to this tragical deed . The knight had wrote to his brother that day , To make this poor innocent damsel away With sword or with poison that very same night , And not let her live till morning light . The thief read the letter , and had so much grace , To tear it , and wrote in the very same place , Dear brother , receive this maiden from me , And bring her up well as a maiden should be . Let her be esteemed , dear brother , I pray , Let servants attend her by night and by day , For she is a lady of noble worth , A nobler lady ne'er liv'd in the North . Let her have good learning , dear brother , I pray , And for the same I'll sufficiently pay , And so , loving brother , this letter I send , Subscribing myself your dear brother and friend . The servant and maid were still innocent , And onward their journey next day they went , Before sunset to the knight's house they came , Where the servant left her and came home again , The girl was attended most nobly indeed , With the servants to attend her with speed , Where she did continue a twelvemonths space , 'Till this cruel knight came to this place . As he and his brother together did talk , He 'spy'd the young maid in the garden to walk , She look'd most beautiful , pleasant and gay , Like to sweet Aurora , or the goddess of May . He was in a passion when her he did spy , This knight could have kill'd her if he had been nigh , Did you not do as in the letter I writ ? His brother reply'd it is done ev'ry bit . No , no , said the knight , it is not so I see , Therefore she shall back again go with me . But his brother shew'd him the letter that day , Then he was amaz'd , but nothing did say , Soon after the knight took this maiden away , And with her did ride till they came to the sea , Then looking upon her with anger and spite , He spoke to this maiden and bid her alight . The maid from the horse immediately went , And trembling to think what was his intent , Ne'er tremble , said he , for this hour is your last , So pull off your clothes , I command you in haste . This virgin , with tears , on her knees did reply , Oh! what have I done , sir , that now I must die ? Oh! let me but know how I offend , I'll study each hour to make you amends . Ah! spare my life , and I'll wander forlorn , And never come near you while I have breath , He hearing the pitiful moan she did make , Straight from his finger a ring he did take . [ He then to this maiden these words he did say , This ring into the water I'll now throw away ; Pray look on it well for the posy is plain ; Than ] tO you [ when you see it you may know it again , ] I charge [ e you for life never come in my sighed , ] For if you do [ I sh ] all [ l oh ] w [ e you a spite ] Unless you do bring the [ same unto ] m [ e . ] With that he let the ring worser [ eep into ] the [ sea . ] Which when he had done , [ aw ] ay he [ did go , ] And left her to wander in sorrow and w [ oe , ] She rambl'd all night , and at length did espy , A homely poor cottage , and to it did high . Being hungry and cold , & her heart full of grief , She went to this cottage to ask for relief , The people reliev'd her , and the next day , They god her a service , as I did hear say , At a nobleman's house , not far from the place , Where she did behave with a modest grace , She was a cookmaid , and forgotten all times past , But observe the wonder that comes at last . As she a fish dinner was dressing one day , And open'd the head of a cod , as they say , She found such a ring , and was in amaze , And she in great wonder upon it did gaze . And viewing it well , she found it to be , The very same ring the knight dropped in the sea . She smil'd when she saw it and blessed her kind fate , But did to no creature the secret relate . This maid in her place did all maidens excel , That the lady took notice and liked her well , Saying she was born of some noble degree , And took her for her companion to be . This beautiful lady in trappings of gold , The knight seeing her he began to look cool , Then he ask'd the lady to grant him a boon , And said , it was to walk with that virgin alone . The lady consenting , telling the young maid , By him she need not fear to be betray'd , When he first met her , thou strumpet said he , Did I not charge thee never to see me ? This hour is your last , to the world bid good night , For being so bold to appear in my sighed ; Said she , in the sea , sir , you flung in your ring , And bid me not see you , unless I did bring The same unto you ; Now I have it , cries she , Behold its the same which you flung in the sea . When the knight saw it he flew to her arms , And said thou hast a million of charms , Said he , charming creature , pray pardon me , Who often contrived the ruin of thee . 'Tis in vain to altar what heaven does decree , For I find you are born my wife to be , Then wedded they were , as I did hear say , And now she's a lady both gallant and gay . They quickly unto her parents did haste , Where the knight told the story of what had passed , But ask'd their pardon upon his bore knee , Who gave it , and rejoic'd their daughter to see . Then they for the fisherman and his wife sent , And for their past troubles did them content , So there was joy unto all them that did see , The farmer's young daughter a lady to be . Turner , Printer , Coventry . worser done , [ aw ] ay he [ did go , ] And left her to wander in sorrow and w [ oe , ] She rambl'd all night , and at length did espy , A homely poor cottage , and to it did high . Being hungry and cold , & her heart full of grief , She went to this cottage to ask for relief , The people reliev'd her , and the next day , They god her a service , as I did hear say , At a nobleman's house , not far from the place , Where she did behave with a modest grace , She was a cookmaid , and forgotten all times past , But observe the wonder that comes at last . As she a fish dinner was dressing one day , And open'd the head of a cod , as they say , She found such a ring , and was in amaze , And she in great wonder upon it did gaze . And viewing it well , she found it to be , The very same ring the knight dropped in the sea . She smil'd when she saw it and blessed her kind fate , But did to no creature the secret relate . This maid in her place did all maidens excel , That the lady took notice and liked her well , Saying she was born of some noble degree , And took her for her companion to be . This beautiful lady in trappings of gold , The knight seeing her he began to look cool , Then he ask'd the lady to grant him a boon , And said , it was to walk with that virgin alone . The lady consenting , telling the young maid , By him she need not fear to be betray'd , When he first met her , thou strumpet said he , Did I not charge thee never to see me ? This hour is your last , to the world bid good night , For being so bold to appear in my sighed ; Said she , in the sea , sir , you flung in your ring , And bid me not see you , unless I did bring The same unto you ; Now I have it , cries she , Behold its the same which you flung in the sea . When the knight saw it he flew to her arms , And said thou hast a million of charms , Said he , charming creature , pray pardon me , Who often contrived the ruin of thee . 'Tis in vain to altar what heaven does decree , For I find you are born my wife to be , Then wedded they were , as I did hear say , And now she's a lady both gallant and gay . They quickly unto her parents did haste , Where the knight told the story of what had passed , But ask'd their pardon upon his bore knee , Who gave it , and rejoic'd their daughter to see . Then they for the fisherman and his wife sent , And for their past troubles did them content , So there was joy unto all them that did see , The farmer's young daughter a lady to be . Turner , Printer , Coventry . 