THE CRUEL KNIGHT And the Fortunate Farmer's Daughter . IN famous York City a farmer did dwell , Who was beloved by his neighbours well , He had a wife that was virtuous and fair , And by her he had a young child every year , In seven years six children he had , Which made their parents hearts full glad , But in a short time as we did hear say , The father in wealth and stock did decay , Altho' that once he had riches in store In a little time he grew very poor , He strove all he could , but alas ! could not thrive He hardly kept his children alive , The children came faster than silver or gold , For his wife conceived again as we are told . And when the time came in labour she fell . But if you will mind me and odd story I'll tell , A noble rich knight by chance did ride by , And hearing this woman shriek and cry , He being well learned in the planets and signs , Did look in the book which puzzled his mind , For the more he did look the more he did read And found that fate the child had decreed . Who was born in the house at the same time . He found it was she that must be his bride But judge how the night was disturbed in mind When he in that book his fortune did find , He quickly road home and was sorely oppress'd From that sad moment he could take no rest . At night he did toss and tumble in bed , And very strange projects came into his head , Then he was resolved and soon try'd indeed , To altar the fortune he found was decreed , With a vexing heart next morning he rose , And so the house of the farmer he goes , And asked the man with a heart full of spite , If the child was alive that was born last night . Worthy sir , said the farmer , altho' I am poor , I had one born last night and six born before , Four sons and three daughters I now have alive They are all in good health and likely to thrive , The knight reply'd , if that seven you have , Let me have the youngest I'll keep it most brave For you very well one daughter may spare , And when I die I [ ' ] ll make her my heir , For I am a knight of noble degree , And if you will part with your child unto me , Full three thousand pounds I'll unto thee give When I from your hands your daughter receive The father and mother with tears in their eyes Did hear this kind offer and where in surprise , And seeing the knight was so noble and gay , Presented the infant unto him that day , But they spoke to him with words most mild . We beseech thee , good sir , be kind to our child You need not mind , the knight he did say , I'll maintain her both gallant and gay . So with this sweet babe away he did ride , Until he came to a broad river's side , Being cruelly bent he resolved indeed To drown the young infant that day with speed Saying if you live you must be my wife , So I am resolved to berieve you of life For 'till you are dead I not comfort can have , Wherefore you shall lie in a watery grave , In saying of this that moment they say He flung the babe into the river straightway , And being well pleased when this he had done , He leapt on his horse & straightway road home But mind how good fortune for her did provide She was drove safe on her back by the tide , where a man was a fishing as fortune did have When she was a floating along with the wave , He took her up , but was in amaze , He kiss'd her , and press'd her , & on her did gaze And he having never a child in his life He straight did carry her home to his wife , His wife was pleased the child for to see , And said my dearest husband be ruled by me , Since we have no child if you let me alone , We will keep this , and call it our own , The good man consented as we have been told , And spared for neither silver nor gold Until she was eleven full years , And then her sweet beauty began for to appear The fisherman was one day at and Inn , And several gentlemen drinking with him , His wife sent this girl to call her husband home But when she into the drinking room came , The gentleman there amazed to see , The fisherman's daughter so full of beauty , They asked him then if she was his own ? And he told them the story before he went home As I was a fishing within my own bound One monday morning this sweet babe I found , Or else she had laid in this watery grave , And this was the account which now he gave , The cruel knight was in the company , And hearing the fisherman tell the story , He was vexed at the heart to see her alive , And how to destroy her he again did contrive , Then spoke the knight and unto him said , If you will but part with the sweet maid , I'll give you whate'er your heart can desvise For she in time to great riches may rise , The fisherman answer'd with a modest grace , I cannot unless my dear wa [ s ] in the place , Get first her consent you shall have mine of me And then to go with you sir she is free , The wife she did also as freely consent , But little they thought of his intent , He kept her a month very bravely they say , And then he contrived to send her away . He had a great brother in Lancashire A nobl [ e ] rich man worth ten thousand a year , And he sent this girl unto him with speed , In hope's he would act a most cruel deed He sent a man with her likewise they say , But as they did lodge at and inn on the way , A thief in the house with and evil intent . To rob the portmantua immediately went , but the thief was amazed when he could not find Neither silver nor gold nor ought to his mind , But only a letter the which he did read And soon put and end to this tragical deed The knight had wrote to his brother that day , To make this poor innocent damsel away . With sword or with poison that very same night And not let her live till morning light The thief read the letter and had so much grace To tear it and wrote in the very same place , Dear brother receive this maiden from me And bring her well up as a maiden should be , Let her be esteemed dear brother I pray , For servants attend her by night and by day . For she is a lady of noble worth A nobler lady ne'er liv [ ' ] worser in the north , Let her have good learning dear brother I pray And for the same I will sufficiently pay , And so dear brother this letter I send . Subscribing myself your dear brother and friend The servant and maid were still innocent , And onward their journey next they went Before sunset to the knight's house they came . Where the servant left her and home came again The girl was attended most nobly indeed . With many servants to attend her with speed Where she did continue a twelvemonths space , 'Till this cruel knight came to this place , As he and his brother together did talk . He spy'd the young maid in the garden to walk She looked most beautiful pleasant and gay , Like to sweet Aurora or the goddess of May , He was in a passion when her he did see , And said most angry why . brother why , Did you not do as in the letter I writ ? His brother replied it is done every bit . No , no , said the knight , it is not so I see . Therefore she shall back again go with me . But his brother showed him the letter that day , Then he was amazed but nothing did say . Soon after the knight took this maiden away , Bnd with her did ride till he came to the sea . Then looking upon her with anger and spite , He spoke to this maiden and bid her alight , The maid from the horse immediately went , And trembling to think what was his intent , Ne'er tremble , said he , for this hour is your last So pull off your clothes I command you in haste This virgin with tears on her knees did reply . Oh! what have I done sir that now I must die Oh! let me but know how I offend , I'll study each hour to make you amends , Ah! spare my life and I'll wander the earth And hever come nigh you while I have breath , He hearing the pitiful moan she did make , Straight from his finger a ring did take , He then to this maiden these words he did say , This ring into the water I'll now throw away , Pray look on it well for the posy is plain ; That when you see it you may know it again , I charge you for lige never come in my sighed , For if you do I shall owe you a spite , Unless you do bring the same unto me . With that he let the ring drop into the sea . Which when he hae done away he did go , And left her to wander in sorrow and woe , She rambled all night and at length did espy , A homely poor cottage and to it did high Being hungry and cold & her he THE CRUEL KNIGHT And the Fortunate Farmer's Daughter . IN famous York City a farmer did dwell , Who was beloved by his neighbours well , He had a wife that was virtuous and fair , And by her he had a young child every year , In seven years six children he had , Which made their parents hearts full glad , But in a short time as we did hear say , The father in wealth and stock did decay , Altho' that once he had riches in store In a little time he grew very poor , He strove all he could , but alas ! could not thrive He hardly kept his children alive , The children came faster than silver or gold , For his wife conceived again as we are told . And when the time came in labour she fell . But if you will mind me and odd story I'll tell , A noble rich knight by chance did ride by , And hearing this woman shriek and cry , He being well learned in the planets and signs , Did look in the book which puzzled his mind , For the more he did look the more he did read And found that fate the child had decreed . Who was born in the house at the same time . He found it was she that must be his bride But judge how the night was disturbed in mind When he in that book his fortune did find , He quickly road home and was sorely oppress'd From that sad moment he could take no rest . At night he did toss and tumble in bed , And very strange projects came into his head , Then he was resolved and soon try'd indeed , To altar the fortune he found was decreed , With a vexing heart next morning he rose , And so the house of the farmer he goes , And asked the man with a heart full of spite , If the child was alive that was born last night . Worthy sir , said the farmer , altho' I am poor , I had one born last night and six born before , Four sons and three daughters I now have alive They are all in good health and likely to thrive , The knight reply'd , if that seven you have , Let me have the youngest I'll keep it most brave For you very well one daughter may spare , And when I die I [ ' ] ll make her my heir , For I am a knight of noble degree , And if you will part with your child unto me , Full three thousand pounds I'll unto thee give When I from your hands your daughter receive The father and mother with tears in their eyes Did hear this kind offer and where in surprise , And seeing the knight was so noble and gay , Presented the infant unto him that day , But they spoke to him with words most mild . We beseech thee , good sir , be kind to our child You need not mind , the knight he did say , I'll maintain her both gallant and gay . So with this sweet babe away he did ride , Until he came to a broad river's side , Being cruelly bent he resolved indeed To drown the young infant that day with speed Saying if you live you must be my wife , So I am resolved to berieve you of life For 'till you are dead I not comfort can have , Wherefore you shall lie in a watery grave , In saying of this that moment they say He flung the babe into the river straightway , And being well pleased when this he had done , He leapt on his horse & straightway road home But mind how good fortune for her did provide She was drove safe on her back by the tide , where a man was a fishing as fortune did have When she was a floating along with the wave , He took her up , but was in amaze , He kiss'd her , and press'd her , & on her did gaze And he having never a child in his life He straight did carry her home to his wife , His wife was pleased the child for to see , And said my dearest husband be ruled by me , Since we have no child if you let me alone , We will keep this , and call it our own , The good man consented as we have been told , And spared for neither silver nor gold Until she was eleven full years , And then her sweet beauty began for to appear The fisherman was one day at and Inn , And several gentlemen drinking with him , His wife sent this girl to call her husband home But when she into the drinking room came , The gentleman there amazed to see , The fisherman's daughter so full of beauty , They asked him then if she was his own ? And he told them the story before he went home As I was a fishing within my own bound One monday morning this sweet babe I found , Or else she had laid in this watery grave , And this was the account which now he gave , The cruel knight was in the company , And hearing the fisherman tell the story , He was vexed at the heart to see her alive , And how to destroy her he again did contrive , Then spoke the knight and unto him said , If you will but part with the sweet maid , I'll give you whate'er your heart can desvise For she in time to great riches may rise , The fisherman answer'd with a modest grace , I cannot unless my dear wa [ s ] in the place , Get first her consent you shall have mine of me And then to go with you sir she is free , The wife she did also as freely consent , But little they thought of his intent , He kept her a month very bravely they say , And then he contrived to send her away . He had a great brother in Lancashire A nobl [ e ] rich man worth ten thousand a year , And he sent this girl unto him with speed , In hope's he would act a most cruel deed He sent a man with her likewise they say , But as they did lodge at and inn on the way , A thief in the house with and evil intent . To rob the portmantua immediately went , but the thief was amazed when he could not find Neither silver nor gold nor ought to his mind , But only a letter the which he did read And soon put and end to this tragical deed The knight had wrote to his brother that day , To make this poor innocent damsel away . With sword or with poison that very same night And not let her live till morning light The thief read the letter and had so much grace To tear it and wrote in the very same place , Dear brother receive this maiden from me And bring her well up as a maiden should be , Let her be esteemed dear brother I pray , For servants attend her by night and by day . For she is a lady of noble worth A nobler lady ne'er liv [ ' ] worser in the north , Let her have good learning dear brother I pray And for the same I will sufficiently pay , And so dear brother this letter I send . Subscribing myself your dear brother and friend The servant and maid were still innocent , And onward their journey next they went Before sunset to the knight's house they came . Where the servant left her and home came again The girl was attended most nobly indeed . With many servants to attend her with speed Where she did continue a twelvemonths space , 'Till this cruel knight came to this place , As he and his brother together did talk . He spy'd the young maid in the garden to walk She looked most beautiful pleasant and gay , Like to sweet Aurora or the goddess of May , He was in a passion when her he did see , And said most angry why . brother why , Did you not do as in the letter I writ ? His brother replied it is done every bit . No , no , said the knight , it is not so I see . Therefore she shall back again go with me . But his brother showed him the letter that day , Then he was amazed but nothing did say . Soon after the knight took this maiden away , Bnd with her did ride till he came to the sea . Then looking upon her with anger and spite , He spoke to this maiden and bid her alight , The maid from the horse immediately went , And trembling to think what was his intent , Ne'er tremble , said he , for this hour is your last So pull off your clothes I command you in haste This virgin with tears on her knees did reply . Oh! what have I done sir that now I must die Oh! let me but know how I offend , I'll study each hour to make you amends , Ah! spare my life and I'll wander the earth And hever come nigh you while I have breath , He hearing the pitiful moan she did make , Straight from his finger a ring did take , He then to this maiden these words he did say , This ring into the water I'll now throw away , Pray look on it well for the posy is plain ; That when you see it you may know it again , I charge you for lige never come in my sighed , For if you do I shall owe you a spite , Unless you do bring the same unto me . With that he let the ring drop into the sea . Which when he hae done away he did go , And left her to wander in sorrow and woe , She rambled all night and at length did espy , A homely poor cottage and to it did high Being hungry and cold & her her heart full of grief She went tot his cottage to ask for relief The people relieved her and the next day , They god her a service as I did hear say , At a nobleman's house not far from the place , Where she did behave with a modest grace . She was a cook maid and forgotten all times past , But observe a wonder that comes at last . As she a fish dinner was dressing one day , And open'd the head of a cod as they say , She found such a ring and was in amaze . And she in great wonder upon it did gaze , And viewing it well she found it to be The very same ring the knight dropped in the sea , She smil'd when she saw it & blessed her kind fate But did to no creature the secret relate , This maid in her place did all maidens excel , That the lady took notice and liked her well , Saying she was born of some noble degree , And took her for her companion to be , This hard hearted knight to this place came , A little time after with persons of fame , But was struck to the soul when he did behold , This beautiful creature in trappings of gold Then he asked the lady to grant him a boon , And said it was to walk with the virgin alone , The lady consented telling the young maid , By him she need not fear to be betray [ ' ] worser , When he first met her thou stumpet he said , Did I not charge thee never more to see me ? This hour's your last to the world bid good night For being so bold to appear in my sighed , Said she in the sea sir you flung a ring , And bid me see you unless I did it bring , The same unto you . Now I have it cries she , Behold 'tis the same you flung into the sea . When the knight saw it he flew to her arms , And said thou hast a million of charms , Said he charming creature , pray pardon me , Who often contrived the ruin of thee . 'Tis in vain to altar what heaven has decreed , For I find you are born my wife for to be Then wedded they were as I have herd say , And now she's a lady both gallant and gay , They quickly unto her parent's did haste , Where the knight told the story what had pass'd But asked their pardon upon his bore knee , Who gave it and rejoiced their daughter to see Then they for the fisherman and his wife sent , And for their past trouble did them content , So there was great joy unto all that did see , The farmer's young daughter a lady to be . r heart full of grief She went tot his cottage to ask for relief The people relieved her and the next day , They god her a service as I did hear say , At a nobleman's house not far from the place , Where she did behave with a modest grace . She was a cook maid and forgotten all times past , But observe a wonder that comes at last . As she a fish dinner was dressing one day , And open'd the head of a cod as they say , She found such a ring and was in amaze . And she in great wonder upon it did gaze , And viewing it well she found it to be The very same ring the knight dropped in the sea , She smil'd when she saw it & blessed her kind fate But did to no creature the secret relate , This maid in her place did all maidens excel , That the lady took notice and liked her well , Saying she was born of some noble degree , And took her for her companion to be , This hard hearted knight to this place came , A little time after with persons of fame , But was struck to the soul when he did behold , This beautiful creature in trappings of gold Then he asked the lady to grant him a boon , And said it was to walk with the virgin alone , The lady consented telling the young maid , By him she need not fear to be betray [ ' ] worser , When he first met her thou stumpet he said , Did I not charge thee never more to see me ? This hour's your last to the world bid good night For being so bold to appear in my sighed , Said she in the sea sir you flung a ring , And bid me see you unless I did it bring , The same unto you . Now I have it cries she , Behold 'tis the same you flung into the sea . When the knight saw it he flew to her arms , And said thou hast a million of charms , Said he charming creature , pray pardon me , Who often contrived the ruin of thee . 'Tis in vain to altar what heaven has decreed , For I find you are born my wife for to be Then wedded they were as I have herd say , And now she's a lady both gallant and gay , They quickly unto her parent's did haste , Where the knight told the story what had pass'd But asked their pardon upon his bore knee , Who gave it and rejoiced their daughter to see Then they for the fisherman and his wife sent , And for their past trouble did them content , So there was great joy unto all that did see , The farmer's young daughter a lady to be . 