The Scotch Wedding : OR , A short and Pretty Way of Wooing . When as Complexions do agree , And all things they are fitting ; Why should the time prolonged be , Be quick and mind your Knitting . To a New Northern Tune , much us'd at the Theatres . With Allowance . IN January last , upon a Munday on the Morn ; As along the fields I passed , to view the Winter Corn ; I ligged me behind the Bray , and I saw come o're the Slow , Yean glenting in and Apron , with a bonny brant brow . I had good Morrow fair Maid , and she right courteously , By Fe and Tro , geud Sir , she said , geud day again to you ; I said to her , fair Maid , quo I , how far intend you now , Quo she geud Sir a mile or twa , to yonder bonny Brow. Fair Maid i'm weel contented , to have sike company , For I am ganging on the gate , where you intend to be ; When we had walked a mile or twa , I said to her my Dow ; May I not lift your Apron , and kiss your bonny Brow. Nay geud Sir you'r mistaken , for I am na'ne of these ; I wot you would mare breeding , then lift a wemans cleathes : You knaw we Must for modesty , nea at the first time bow , But if we like your company , we are as kind as you . I Teuk her by the hand so smaw , and I led her o're the Lawn , I gave her many a glancing leuk , so did she me again ; I led her in among the Bent , where nean of awe cu'd see , And then quo I my bonny Lass , now wilt thou mow with me . I dare not deam that deed , quo she , for fear I prove with Bearn , And then may I sing lullabee , and live in much scorn ; Tush fie , quo I , tack thou ne care , fear not with Bearn to be , For weel I wat next Holiday , that I will wed with thee . I laid her down upon the Green , and said prove kind my dear ; We now are safe from being seen , thou needs nea danger fear : She blushed and smiled in my face , my bonny Lad , quo she , Since we are in this uncouth place , deal kindly now with me . I used all my skill and art , her humour for to please ; I pricked her , but she felt no smart , but still lay at her ease ; At length I put her to the squeak , and claw'd her bonny weam ; Quo she , my heart with joy will break , pray let me now gang heam . When we had taken of love our fill , sea weel she pleas'd my mind ; I vow'd I would be constant still , since that she was so kind ; Quo I my only Duck , my dear , now let us twa agree ; How to provide our Bridal cheer , against we wedded be . The warst on 't is , my love , quo she , we want a Ring I trow , Ne'r rack , quo I , leave that to me , i'le fell my Dodded You ; Miss John the Vicar is my friend , who will be rul'd by me ; And hour or twa with us to spend , when we shall wedded be . Weel would beath bak'd , & boil'd , & roast , upon our Weddding day , And Will the Weaver at my cost shall on the Bagpipes play ; The Lads and Lasses in the Town , shall at our Nuptials be , And thou shalt have a Tawny Gown , sea weel thou pleases me . Now when the Wedding day was come as they did beath conclude , The dinner was in readiness , the liquour it was brew'd ; And so they went unto the Kirk , weel wedded for to be ; And made a much merry feast , and now lives lovingly . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smith [ - ] field . The Scotch Wedding : OR , A short and Pretty Way of Wooing . When as Complexions do agree , And all things they are fitting ; Why should the time prolonged be , Be quick and mind your Knitting . To a New Northern Tune , much us'd at the Theatres . With Allowance . IN January last , upon a Munday on the Morn ; As along the fields I passed , to view the Winter Corn ; I ligged me behind the Bray , and I saw come o're the Slow , Yean glenting in and Apron , with a bonny brant brow . I had good Morrow fair Maid , and she right courteously , By Fe and Tro , geud Sir , she said , geud day again to you ; I said to her , fair Maid , quo I , how far intend you now , Quo she geud Sir a mile or twa , to yonder bonny Brow. Fair Maid i'm weel contented , to have sike company , For I am ganging on the gate , where you intend to be ; When we had walked a mile or twa , I said to her my Dow ; May I not lift your Apron , and kiss your bonny Brow. Nay geud Sir you'r mistaken , for I am na'ne of these ; I wot you would mare breeding , then lift a wemans cleathes : You knaw we Must for modesty , nea at the first time bow , But if we like your company , we are as kind as you . I Teuk her by the hand so smaw , and I led her o're the Lawn , I gave her many a glancing leuk , so did she me again ; I led her in among the Bent , where nean of awe cu'd see , And then quo I my bonny Lass , now wilt thou mow with me . I dare not deam that deed , quo she , for fear I prove with Bearn , And then may I sing lullabee , and live in much scorn ; Tush fie , quo I , tack thou ne care , fear not with Bearn to be , For weel I wat next Holiday , that I will wed with thee . I laid her down upon the Green , and said prove kind my dear ; We now are safe from being seen , thou needs nea danger fear : She blushed and smiled in my face , my bonny Lad , quo she , Since we are in this uncouth place , deal kindly now with me . I used all my skill and art , her humour for to please ; I pricked her , but she felt no smart , but still lay at her ease ; At length I put her to the squeak , and claw'd her bonny weam ; Quo she , my heart with joy will break , pray let me now gang heam . When we had taken of love our fill , sea weel she pleas'd my mind ; I vow'd I would be constant still , since that she was so kind ; Quo I my only Duck , my dear , now let us twa agree ; How to provide our Bridal cheer , against we wedded be . The warst on 't is , my love , quo she , we want a Ring I trow , Ne'r rack , quo I , leave that to me , i'le fell my Dodded You ; Miss John the Vicar is my friend , who will be rul'd by me ; And hour or twa with us to spend , when we shall wedded be . Weel would beath bak'd , & boil'd , & roast , upon our Weddding day , And Will the Weaver at my cost shall on the Bagpipes play ; The Lads and Lasses in the Town , shall at our Nuptials be , And thou shalt have a Tawny Gown , sea weel thou pleases me . Now when the Wedding day was come as they did beath conclude , The dinner was in readiness , the liquour it was brew'd ; And so they went unto the Kirk , weel wedded for to be ; And made a much merry feast , and now lives lovingly . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smith [ - ] field . 