A DIALOGUE Betwixt TOM AND DICK The former a COUNTRY-MAN , The other a CITIZEN , Presented to his EXCELLENCY and the COUNCIL of STATE , at DRAPERS-Hall in LONDON , March 28. 1660. ( To the Tune of I'le never love thee more . ) Tom. NOW would I give my life to see , This wondrous Man of might . Dick . Dost see that Jolly Lad ? That's he ; I'le warrant him he's right . There's a true Trojan in his Face : Observe him o're and o're . Chorus . Dick . Come Tom ; If ever GEORGE be base , Ne're trust goodfellow more . He's none of that Fantastic Brood , That murder , while they pray : That truss , and cheat us , for our good ; ( All , in a Godly way , ) He drinks no Blood , and they no Sack into their guts will pour . Chorus . But if GEORGE does not do the knack Ne're trust goodfellow more . His quiet Conscience needs no guard ; He's brave , but full of pity . Tom. Yet , by your leave , he knock'd so hard , H'ad like t'awak'd the City . Dick . Fool , 'Twas the Rump that let a Fart , The Chains and Gates it tore . Chorus . But if GEORGE bears not a true heart , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. Your City-blades are cunning Rooks ; How rarely you collogue him ? But when your Gates flew off the Hooks , You did as much be-rogue him . Dick . Pug'h . --- 'Twas the Rump did only Feel , The blows the City boar . Chorus . But if GEORGE be'nt as true as Steel , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Dick . Come , by this Hand , we'll crack a quart , Thou'll pledge his health , I trow . Tom. Tope boy , Dick --- A lusty dish my heart , Away w'ot ; Tom. --- Let it go . Drench me you slave in a full Bowl , I'll take't , an' it a score . Chorus . Dick . Nay , if GEORGE be'nt a hearty Soul , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. But hark you , Sirrah , we're to loud , He'll hang us , by , and by . Me'thinks , he should be vengeance proud ? Dick . No more then thee , or I . Tom. Why then I'le give him the best Blade , That ere the Bilbo wore , Chorus . Dick . If GEORGE prove not a Bonny Lad , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. 'Twas well he came , we'd mawll'd the Tail ; --- We've all thrown up our Farms . And from the Musket , to the Flail , Put all our men in Arms . The Girls had ta'ne the Members down , Ne're saw such things before . Dick . If GEORGE speak not the Town our own , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Dick . But prithee , are the Folk so mad ? Tom. --- So mad , say'st ; --- The're undone , There's not a penny to be had ; And ev'ry Mother's Son Must fight , if he intend to eat , Grow valiant , now he is poor . Chorus . Dick . Come --- yet if GEORGE don't do the feat , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. --- Why Richard , 'tis a Devilish thing , We're not left worth a groat . My Doll , has sold her wedding-ring , And Sum has pawned her Coat . The Sniv'ling Rogues abus'd our Squire , And call'd our Mistress Whore . Chorus . Dick . Yet --- If GEORGE don't what we desire , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom : -- By this good day ; I did but speak ; They took my Py-ball'd Mare ; And put the Carri'on Wench to th' squeak : ( Things go against the Hair ) . Our Prick-ear'd Cor'nell looks as big Still , as he did before . Chorus . Dick . And yet if GEORGE don't humme his Gigg , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . 'Faith , Tom : our Case is much at one ; We're broke for want of Trade ; Our City's baffled , and undone , Betwixt the Rump , and Blade . We've emptied both our Veins and Bags , Upon a Factious Score . Chorus . If GEORGE Compassion not our Rags , Ne're trust Good-fellow more Tom. But what dost think should be the Cause , Whence all these Mischiefs spring ? Dick . Our damned breach of Oaths and Laws ; Our Murder of the King . We have been Slaves since CHARLES his Reign , We liv'd like Lords before . Chorus . If GEORGE don't set all right again , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. Our Vicar ------ ( And hee's one that knows ) Told me once , ------ I know wha ------ ( And yet the Thief is woundy Close ) Dick . 'Tis all the better ; --- That . H'as too much Honesty and Wit , To let his Tongue run o're : Chorus . If this prove not a lucky hit , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Shall's ask him , what he means to do ? Tom. ------ 'Good faith , with all my heart ; Thou mak'st the better Leg o' th' Two : Take thou the better part . I'l ! follow , if thou't lead the Van. Dick . Content ; --- I'll march before . Chorus . If GEORGE prove not a Gallant man , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . My Lord : --- in us the Nation craves But what you're bound to do . Tom. ------ We have liv'd Drudges : Ric. --- And We Slaves ; Both. We would not die so too . Chorus . Restore us but our Laws again ; Th' unborn shall thee adore : If GEORGE denies us his Amen ; Ne're trust Good-fellow more . A DIALOGUE Betwixt TOM AND DICK The former a COUNTRY-MAN , The other a CITIZEN , Presented to his EXCELLENCY and the COUNCIL of STATE , at DRAPERS-Hall in LONDON , March 28. 1660. ( To the Tune of I'le never love thee more . ) Tom. NOW would I give my life to see , This wondrous Man of might . Dick . Dost see that Jolly Lad ? That's he ; I'le warrant him he's right . There's a true Trojan in his Face : Observe him o're and o're . Chorus . Dick . Come Tom ; If ever GEORGE be base , Ne're trust goodfellow more . He's none of that Fantastic Brood , That murder , while they pray : That truss , and cheat us , for our good ; ( All , in a Godly way , ) He drinks no Blood , and they no Sack into their guts will pour . Chorus . But if GEORGE does not do the knack Ne're trust goodfellow more . His quiet Conscience needs no guard ; He's brave , but full of pity . Tom. Yet , by your leave , he knock'd so hard , H'ad like t'awak'd the City . Dick . Fool , 'Twas the Rump that let a Fart , The Chains and Gates it tore . Chorus . But if GEORGE bears not a true heart , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. Your City-blades are cunning Rooks ; How rarely you collogue him ? But when your Gates flew off the Hooks , You did as much be-rogue him . Dick . Pug'h . --- 'Twas the Rump did only Feel , The blows the City boar . Chorus . But if GEORGE be'nt as true as Steel , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Dick . Come , by this Hand , we'll crack a quart , Thou'll pledge his health , I trow . Tom. Tope boy , Dick --- A lusty dish my heart , Away w'ot ; Tom. --- Let it go . Drench me you slave in a full Bowl , I'll take't , an' it a score . Chorus . Dick . Nay , if GEORGE be'nt a hearty Soul , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. But hark you , Sirrah , we're to loud , He'll hang us , by , and by . Me'thinks , he should be vengeance proud ? Dick . No more then thee , or I . Tom. Why then I'le give him the best Blade , That ere the Bilbo wore , Chorus . Dick . If GEORGE prove not a Bonny Lad , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. 'Twas well he came , we'd mawll'd the Tail ; --- We've all thrown up our Farms . And from the Musket , to the Flail , Put all our men in Arms . The Girls had ta'ne the Members down , Ne're saw such things before . Dick . If GEORGE speak not the Town our own , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Dick . But prithee , are the Folk so mad ? Tom. --- So mad , say'st ; --- The're undone , There's not a penny to be had ; And ev'ry Mother's Son Must fight , if he intend to eat , Grow valiant , now he is poor . Chorus . Dick . Come --- yet if GEORGE don't do the feat , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. --- Why Richard , 'tis a Devilish thing , We're not left worth a groat . My Doll , has sold her wedding-ring , And Sum has pawned her Coat . The Sniv'ling Rogues abus'd our Squire , And call'd our Mistress Whore . Chorus . Dick . Yet --- If GEORGE don't what we desire , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom : -- By this good day ; I did but speak ; They took my Py-ball'd Mare ; And put the Carri'on Wench to th' squeak : ( Things go against the Hair ) . Our Prick-ear'd Cor'nell looks as big Still , as he did before . Chorus . Dick . And yet if GEORGE don't humme his Gigg , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . 'Faith , Tom : our Case is much at one ; We're broke for want of Trade ; Our City's baffled , and undone , Betwixt the Rump , and Blade . We've emptied both our Veins and Bags , Upon a Factious Score . Chorus . If GEORGE Compassion not our Rags , Ne're trust Good-fellow more Tom. But what dost think should be the Cause , Whence all these Mischiefs spring ? Dick . Our damned breach of Oaths and Laws ; Our Murder of the King . We have been Slaves since CHARLES his Reign , We liv'd like Lords before . Chorus . If GEORGE don't set all right again , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. Our Vicar ------ ( And hee's one that knows ) Told me once , ------ I know wha ------ ( And yet the Thief is woundy Close ) Dick . 'Tis all the better ; --- That . H'as too much Honesty and Wit , To let his Tongue run o're : Chorus . If this prove not a lucky hit , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Shall's ask him , what he means to do ? Tom. ------ 'Good faith , with all my heart ; Thou mak'st the better Leg o' th' Two : Take thou the better part . I'l ! follow , if thou't lead the Van. Dick . Content ; --- I'll march before . Chorus . If GEORGE prove not a Gallant man , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . My Lord : --- in us the Nation craves But what you're bound to do . Tom. ------ We have liv'd Drudges : Ric. --- And We Slaves ; Both. We would not die so too . Chorus . Restore us but our Laws again ; Th' unborn shall thee adore : If GEORGE denies us his Amen ; Ne're trust Good-fellow more . 