A SPEECH MADE TO THE Lord General MONCK , AT Clotheworkers Hall in London The 13. of March , 1659. at which time he was there entertained by that Worthy Company . NAy , then let me come too with my Address , Why mayn't a Rustic promise , or profess His good Affection t' you ? Why not declare His Wants ? How many , and how great they are ? And how you may supply them ? Since you may See our Hearts mourn , although our Clothes be grey . Great Hero of three Nations ! Whose Blood springs From pious and from pow'rfull Grandsire Kings ; With whose Blood-royal you've enrich'd your veins , And by continu'd Policy and Pains Have equall'd all their Glory ; So that now Three Kingless Sceptres to your Feet do bow , And court Protection , and Alliance too ; And what Great men still reach'd at stoups to you . But you're too truly Noble to aspire By Fraud or Force to Greatness ; or t'acquire Sceptres and Crowns by Robbery , or base And wilful breach of Trusts , and Oaths , nor place Your Happiness in ravished Dominion , Whose Glory's only founded in opinion ; Attended still with danger , fear , and doubt , And fears within , worse than all those without . You must still watch and fear , and think , and must Loose all Content to gratify one Lust , Should you invade the Throne , or aim at Pelf , Throw down three Nations to set up yourself ; Kings are but royal Slaves , and Prisoners too , They always toil , and always guarded go . You are for making Princes , and can find No work proportion'd to your Pow'r , and mind , But Atlas-like to bear the World , and be The great Restorer of the Liberty Of three long captiv'd Kingdoms who were thrown By others strong Delusions , and their own Misguided zeal , to do and suffer what Their very Souls now grieve and tremble at , WORSER bauch'd by those they thought would teach & rule'um , Who now , they find did ruin and befool'um . Our meanings still were honest , for alas ! We never dream't of what's since come to pass ; 'Twas never our intent to violate The settled Order of the Church or State , To throw down Rulers from their lawful Seat , Merely to make ambitious small things great , Or to subvert the Laws ; but we thought then The Laws were good if manag'd by good men ; And so we do think still , and find it true , Old Laws did more good , and less harm than New ; And 'twas the Plague of Countries and of Cities , When that great-belly'd House did spawn Committees . We fought not for Religion , for 'tis known , Poor men have little , and some great Ones none ; Those few that love it truly , do well know , None can take 't from us , where we will or no . Nor did we fight for Laws , nor had we needs , For if we had but Gold enough to feed Our taking Lawyers , we had Laws enough , Without addressing to the Sword , or Buff. Nor yet for Liberties ; for those are things Have cost us more in Keepers , than in Kings . Nor yet for Peace ; for if we had done so , The Soldiers would have beatrice us long ago ; Yet we did fight , and now we see for what , To shuffle men's Estates ; those Owners that Before these wars , could call Estates their own , Are beaten out by others , that had none . Both Law and Gospel overthrown together , By those who ne're believ'd in , or lov'd either . Our truth , our trade , our peace , our wealth , our freedom , And our full Parliaments , that did get , and breed 'um , Are all devour'd , and by a Monster fell , Whom none , but you , could satisfy , or quell . You're great , you're good , you're valiant , & you're wise . You have Briarius hands , and Argus eyes ; You are our English Champion , you're the true St. George for England , and for Scotland too . And though his Storie's question'd much by some , Where true , or false , this Age , and those to come , Shall for the future find it so far true , That all was but a Prophecy of you ; And all his great and high Achievements be Explain'd by you in this Mythology . Herein you've far outdone him , he did fight But with one single Dragon : but by your might A Legion have been tam'd , and made to serve The People , whom they meant t' undo and starve . In this you may do higher , and make fame , Immortalise your celebrated name , This Ages glory , wonder of all after , If you would free the Son , as he the Daughter . FINIS . A SPEECH MADE TO THE Lord General MONCK , AT Clotheworkers Hall in London The 13. of March , 1659. at which time he was there entertained by that Worthy Company . NAy , then let me come too with my Address , Why mayn't a Rustic promise , or profess His good Affection t' you ? Why not declare His Wants ? How many , and how great they are ? And how you may supply them ? Since you may See our Hearts mourn , although our Clothes be grey . Great Hero of three Nations ! Whose Blood springs From pious and from pow'rfull Grandsire Kings ; With whose Blood-royal you've enrich'd your veins , And by continu'd Policy and Pains Have equall'd all their Glory ; So that now Three Kingless Sceptres to your Feet do bow , And court Protection , and Alliance too ; And what Great men still reach'd at stoups to you . But you're too truly Noble to aspire By Fraud or Force to Greatness ; or t'acquire Sceptres and Crowns by Robbery , or base And wilful breach of Trusts , and Oaths , nor place Your Happiness in ravished Dominion , Whose Glory's only founded in opinion ; Attended still with danger , fear , and doubt , And fears within , worse than all those without . You must still watch and fear , and think , and must Loose all Content to gratify one Lust , Should you invade the Throne , or aim at Pelf , Throw down three Nations to set up yourself ; Kings are but royal Slaves , and Prisoners too , They always toil , and always guarded go . You are for making Princes , and can find No work proportion'd to your Pow'r , and mind , But Atlas-like to bear the World , and be The great Restorer of the Liberty Of three long captiv'd Kingdoms who were thrown By others strong Delusions , and their own Misguided zeal , to do and suffer what Their very Souls now grieve and tremble at , WORSER bauch'd by those they thought would teach & rule'um , Who now , they find did ruin and befool'um . Our meanings still were honest , for alas ! We never dream't of what's since come to pass ; 'Twas never our intent to violate The settled Order of the Church or State , To throw down Rulers from their lawful Seat , Merely to make ambitious small things great , Or to subvert the Laws ; but we thought then The Laws were good if manag'd by good men ; And so we do think still , and find it true , Old Laws did more good , and less harm than New ; And 'twas the Plague of Countries and of Cities , When that great-belly'd House did spawn Committees . We fought not for Religion , for 'tis known , Poor men have little , and some great Ones none ; Those few that love it truly , do well know , None can take 't from us , where we will or no . Nor did we fight for Laws , nor had we needs , For if we had but Gold enough to feed Our taking Lawyers , we had Laws enough , Without addressing to the Sword , or Buff. Nor yet for Liberties ; for those are things Have cost us more in Keepers , than in Kings . Nor yet for Peace ; for if we had done so , The Soldiers would have beatrice us long ago ; Yet we did fight , and now we see for what , To shuffle men's Estates ; those Owners that Before these wars , could call Estates their own , Are beaten out by others , that had none . Both Law and Gospel overthrown together , By those who ne're believ'd in , or lov'd either . Our truth , our trade , our peace , our wealth , our freedom , And our full Parliaments , that did get , and breed 'um , Are all devour'd , and by a Monster fell , Whom none , but you , could satisfy , or quell . You're great , you're good , you're valiant , & you're wise . You have Briarius hands , and Argus eyes ; You are our English Champion , you're the true St. George for England , and for Scotland too . And though his Storie's question'd much by some , Where true , or false , this Age , and those to come , Shall for the future find it so far true , That all was but a Prophecy of you ; And all his great and high Achievements be Explain'd by you in this Mythology . Herein you've far outdone him , he did fight But with one single Dragon : but by your might A Legion have been tam'd , and made to serve The People , whom they meant t' undo and starve . In this you may do higher , and make fame , Immortalise your celebrated name , This Ages glory , wonder of all after , If you would free the Son , as he the Daughter . FINIS . 