A Pleasant BALLAD of TOBIAS : Wherein is showed what wondered Things chanced to him in his Youth ; and how he wedded a young Damosel that had had Seven Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , being all Slave by and Evil Spirit . To a pleasant new Tune . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . IN Nineve old Toby dwelled , and aged Man and blind was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto misery : He had by Anna his true Wife , one only Son and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store : He brought him up so virtuously , in true obedience and in awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his Law : Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd his Son to him with speed , And thus to him these words did frame , My Son , quoth he , thou know'st my need , Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguel's house in Media-land ; For I did lend him long ago , ten talents on his only band . My Father dear , Tobias said , at your command strait will I go ; How shall I get the money paid , seeing the Man I ne'r did know ? Take then the writings here with thee , which is sufficient to be seen ; And get a Guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A Guide Tobias soon had god , and Angel in the shape of Man , Which thing he did not know , God wot , the Lord had so appointed then . Tobias with his blessed Guide , went on his journey thus with speed , Until they came to Tigris-side , at the fair flood they did abide : Tobias would go wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty Fish put him in fear , which leapt out of the waters deep . Cut up the Fish , the Angel said , and keep the liver , heart , and gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal . When this was done , away they went , and coming near their journy's end , We'll lodge tonight , the Angel said , with Raguel thy Father's Friend : He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life ; And when we came unto that place , I'll speak that she may be thy Wife . Why Azarius then ( quoth he ) for so they did the Angel call , I wis she is no Wife for me , swift Death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven Men to her have married been , which in her love did take delight ; When her bedchamber they had seen , they had not lived half the nigh A wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any Man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what they can . The Angel said , Good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguel's home away they run , where Sarah met them , fair and bright , And after salutations done , she brought them to her Father's sighed . Great cheer there was , and down they sat , and all for young Tobias's sake ; And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt them two a match they make ; By Moses Law they married were , the Bride's bedchamber prepar'd likewise ; When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarah's eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the Fish's heart and liver there ; Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a favour everywhere : And by that sweet and pleasant smell , the wicked Spirit was displac'd : Within that room he could not dwell , and therefore out he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the chamber-door was shut therefore ; Young Toby l [ y ] ing by her side , whom he did think to see no more : And therefore Raguel in the night , for him before had made a grave ; And to his Wife he wept and said , There is no means his life to save . One of the Maidens send ( quoth he ) to see how all the matters stands , And if so be that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This Maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is a [ l ] ive , ( quoth she . ) When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For joy he made a solemn feast , the brida [ l ] fourteen days they kept , There came many a friendly Guest ; in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarius went straightway , unto the feast Gabael brought ; Rejoicing at his marriage-day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his Wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel ; His aged Mother every day , did watch the high-way-side ; And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely Bride , To Nineve did homeward pass , with Goods and Chattels on each side : But Toby and his Angel bright , before his Wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things aright , his lovely Bride to welcome ho . His Mother watching in the way , full soon espied her tender Son ; Rejoicing at that happy day , she told her Husband he was come : Whereat old Toby tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see ; Young Toby with the Fish's gall , rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes , incontinent did fallen out quite ; So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighs Great joy there was , and down they sat , young Toby told his Father all ; Who went to meet his lovely Bride , with joy and mirth that was not small . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . A Pleasant BALLAD of TOBIAS : Wherein is showed what wondered Things chanced to him in his Youth ; and how he wedded a young Damosel that had had Seven Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , being all Slave by and Evil Spirit . To a pleasant new Tune . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . IN Nineve old Toby dwelled , and aged Man and blind was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto misery : He had by Anna his true Wife , one only Son and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store : He brought him up so virtuously , in true obedience and in awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his Law : Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd his Son to him with speed , And thus to him these words did frame , My Son , quoth he , thou know'st my need , Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguel's house in Media-land ; For I did lend him long ago , ten talents on his only band . My Father dear , Tobias said , at your command strait will I go ; How shall I get the money paid , seeing the Man I ne'r did know ? Take then the writings here with thee , which is sufficient to be seen ; And get a Guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A Guide Tobias soon had god , and Angel in the shape of Man , Which thing he did not know , God wot , the Lord had so appointed then . Tobias with his blessed Guide , went on his journey thus with speed , Until they came to Tigris-side , at the fair flood they did abide : Tobias would go wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty Fish put him in fear , which leapt out of the waters deep . Cut up the Fish , the Angel said , and keep the liver , heart , and gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal . When this was done , away they went , and coming near their journy's end , We'll lodge tonight , the Angel said , with Raguel thy Father's Friend : He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life ; And when we came unto that place , I'll speak that she may be thy Wife . Why Azarius then ( quoth he ) for so they did the Angel call , I wis she is no Wife for me , swift Death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven Men to her have married been , which in her love did take delight ; When her bedchamber they had seen , they had not lived half the nigh A wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any Man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what they can . The Angel said , Good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguel's home away they run , where Sarah met them , fair and bright , And after salutations done , she brought them to her Father's sighed . Great cheer there was , and down they sat , and all for young Tobias's sake ; And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt them two a match they make ; By Moses Law they married were , the Bride's bedchamber prepar'd likewise ; When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarah's eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the Fish's heart and liver there ; Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a favour everywhere : And by that sweet and pleasant smell , the wicked Spirit was displac'd : Within that room he could not dwell , and therefore out he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the chamber-door was shut therefore ; Young Toby l [ y ] ing by her side , whom he did think to see no more : And therefore Raguel in the night , for him before had made a grave ; And to his Wife he wept and said , There is no means his life to save . One of the Maidens send ( quoth he ) to see how all the matters stands , And if so be that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This Maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is a [ l ] ive , ( quoth she . ) When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For joy he made a solemn feast , the brida [ l ] fourteen days they kept , There came many a friendly Guest ; in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarius went straightway , unto the feast Gabael brought ; Rejoicing at his marriage-day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his Wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel ; His aged Mother every day , did watch the high-way-side ; And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely Bride , To Nineve did homeward pass , with Goods and Chattels on each side : But Toby and his Angel bright , before his Wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things aright , his lovely Bride to welcome ho . His Mother watching in the way , full soon espied her tender Son ; Rejoicing at that happy day , she told her Husband he was come : Whereat old Toby tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see ; Young Toby with the Fish's gall , rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes , incontinent did fallen out quite ; So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighs Great joy there was , and down they sat , young Toby told his Father all ; Who went to meet his lovely Bride , with joy and mirth that was not small . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . 