Fame's Genius OR , A PANEGYRICK Upon His Excellency the Lord General MONCK . At VINTNERS-HALL Thursday the 12th of April 1660. among the rest , the Muses gave Consent That I , this worthless from might now present To the World's view : The Subject seems too high , To be compriz'd in and Epitome , Confessed indeed : but I have strein'd my Quill , Dy'd in the Sable wave to 'ts utmost skill ; And in Enchiridion , spread his Fame , Whose Merits floats , while others sink with shame : Not to unmantle Self-end subtlety ? But the true Portraiture of honesty ( MONCK 'tis I mean ) at a far easier Rate , Then Bloodshed : purchas'd freedom in our State , When as the Nation groan'd , tortur'd with pain Of a Confusion , steeped within her Brain . What sad Distempers did she undergo ? Lull'd up , and down , by Heresy , tossed to and from , By Frantic Policy , Self-interest , and what Art Not to abate , but to augment her smart . Some Empirics did pretend to give her ease , In this her giddy , languishing Disease : But through mistaken apprehension us'd Applied wrong Remedies , and were confus'd . Then others thought , to take the State in hand . Finding their purpose fair were at a stand . The rest of this wise Consultation Concluded ruin , for and application ; Thus thrown from hand to hand , her Lethargy Was almost grown , to a disparity . A Lethargy indeed , Censur'd to be By so long sleeping , in her misery : At last awak'd , and when awak'd she Cry'd Liberty , smother'd for want of Liberty but deny'd Deem'd as and unfit Salve , yet in fine prov'd To be the self same thing as it behov'd . Then from the North That grand Adjutator came , Whose approbation gave him the best name : Within whose Breast contracted seem to be Valour with Wisdom , and honest Policy ; These three united were the means , that wrought Our Nations Cure , which so long we sought . * Mars himself yielded , and not usually Restrein'd his Arms from wonted Cruelty , His angry Brow seem'd veiled with Modesty When thus perceiving ( MONCK ) his Prudency , * Pax sine Bello . Now the Scene's altered the Oppressor's gone , Each Actor strives to quit his actium ; It but a Dream , when they played , aim at all , To soar too high , is but to have a fallen , To themselves Sophisters , our discontent Recoils again : Heaven relief hath sent , Now the Black Cloud's withdrawn the bloody Veil Is rend in sunder , by a Northern Gale : The Gloomy night is past , Awake , behold Aurora dos her Majesty unfold . The rav'nous Lion dreading the sighed of fire Couches : or usual dos to his Den retire : So , when this Blazing Comet did appear , Our Prey-seekers , were possessed with fear , Affrighted with their own Conscience terrified With Its black dismal Aspect , slunk aside , Why may not Exiled Justice transport make Now to Its Mansion , and possession take Rise from Despair , here is our hope arriv'd , Brave George's at hand , and bids us be reviv'd . ENGLAND'S content , persist , thy work begun Gives more , then much ease , to the Nation , Proceed Great General , Honour is thine own , In doing what thou hast already done : But if thy Inclination points to more , As seldom Heroes rest , on such a score It not amiss , but meet to contrive Thy fainting Patient , a Restorative To what affection Bends , as commonly We find most Sovereign is sympathy , And as experience approves , the best thing Does best agree , call'd by the name of KING , C. SOUTHAICK . Carmina quam scribunt fama perenniteat . LONDON , Printed for J. Jones , and are to be sold at the Royal Exchange in Cornhil , 1660. Fame's Genius OR , A PANEGYRICK Upon His Excellency the Lord General MONCK . At VINTNERS-HALL Thursday the 12th of April 1660. among the rest , the Muses gave Consent That I , this worthless from might now present To the World's view : The Subject seems too high , To be compriz'd in and Epitome , Confessed indeed : but I have strein'd my Quill , Dy'd in the Sable wave to 'ts utmost skill ; And in Enchiridion , spread his Fame , Whose Merits floats , while others sink with shame : Not to unmantle Self-end subtlety ? But the true Portraiture of honesty ( MONCK 'tis I mean ) at a far easier Rate , Then Bloodshed : purchas'd freedom in our State , When as the Nation groan'd , tortur'd with pain Of a Confusion , steeped within her Brain . What sad Distempers did she undergo ? Lull'd up , and down , by Heresy , tossed to and from , By Frantic Policy , Self-interest , and what Art Not to abate , but to augment her smart . Some Empirics did pretend to give her ease , In this her giddy , languishing Disease : But through mistaken apprehension us'd Applied wrong Remedies , and were confus'd . Then others thought , to take the State in hand . Finding their purpose fair were at a stand . The rest of this wise Consultation Concluded ruin , for and application ; Thus thrown from hand to hand , her Lethargy Was almost grown , to a disparity . A Lethargy indeed , Censur'd to be By so long sleeping , in her misery : At last awak'd , and when awak'd she Cry'd Liberty , smother'd for want of Liberty but deny'd Deem'd as and unfit Salve , yet in fine prov'd To be the self same thing as it behov'd . Then from the North That grand Adjutator came , Whose approbation gave him the best name : Within whose Breast contracted seem to be Valour with Wisdom , and honest Policy ; These three united were the means , that wrought Our Nations Cure , which so long we sought . * Mars himself yielded , and not usually Restrein'd his Arms from wonted Cruelty , His angry Brow seem'd veiled with Modesty When thus perceiving ( MONCK ) his Prudency , * Pax sine Bello . Now the Scene's altered the Oppressor's gone , Each Actor strives to quit his actium ; It but a Dream , when they played , aim at all , To soar too high , is but to have a fallen , To themselves Sophisters , our discontent Recoils again : Heaven relief hath sent , Now the Black Cloud's withdrawn the bloody Veil Is rend in sunder , by a Northern Gale : The Gloomy night is past , Awake , behold Aurora dos her Majesty unfold . The rav'nous Lion dreading the sighed of fire Couches : or usual dos to his Den retire : So , when this Blazing Comet did appear , Our Prey-seekers , were possessed with fear , Affrighted with their own Conscience terrified With Its black dismal Aspect , slunk aside , Why may not Exiled Justice transport make Now to Its Mansion , and possession take Rise from Despair , here is our hope arriv'd , Brave George's at hand , and bids us be reviv'd . ENGLAND'S content , persist , thy work begun Gives more , then much ease , to the Nation , Proceed Great General , Honour is thine own , In doing what thou hast already done : But if thy Inclination points to more , As seldom Heroes rest , on such a score It not amiss , but meet to contrive Thy fainting Patient , a Restorative To what affection Bends , as commonly We find most Sovereign is sympathy , And as experience approves , the best thing Does best agree , call'd by the name of KING , C. SOUTHAICK . Carmina quam scribunt fama perenniteat . LONDON , Printed for J. Jones , and are to be sold at the Royal Exchange in Cornhil , 1660. 