FAITHFUL JEMMY , And Constant SUSAN , Living near Reddriff . When Jemmy he was bound to Sea , Susan she did complain , Said he , my Dear , be of good cheer , while I return again . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . JEMMY and SUSAN both loving and Loyal , and in their Embraces their joys did abound , Fortune divided them , this was a trial , sweet Susan with sorrow encompassed round : Now he was forced to leave his sweet Susan , and also commanded to hoist up their Sail , This was a grief to them both in conclusion , ah ! how she in sorrow then did bewail . Thus his sweet Susan alas ! she lamented , she blaming the fate and her fortune unkind , Jemmy beholding his heart then relented , he said my dear Creature , thou surely shalt find : Though for a time we must now be divided , my heart I will lodge and lay up in thy breast , If by the powers above we are guided , when I return my dear love shall be blessed . I do desire to have Life no longer , then I do intend to prove true to my Dear , Though for a time we are parted asunder , yet I will be faithful , love be of good cheer : Never was creature more fair and completer , then my loving Susan , the joy of my mind , Graced with Beauty in every feature , I'le be unchangeable , Love thou shalt find . O that my sighs and my tears were prevailing , my dear to enjoy thee , and all would be well : But in thy absence all blessings are failing , sweet Jemmy 'tis thee that my grief can expel : Love do not leave me , sweet Jemmy reprieve me , now from those sad sighing , and sorrow and grief , Thou hast my heart , dear Jemmy believe me , then take some pity and yield me relief . My dearest Jemmy , the Seas they have danger , when in raging Tempests the Billows do roar , I to those sorrows my Love am a stranger , and wh [ e ] n thou art gone I shall ne'r see thee more : I have five hundred pounds to my portion , in Silver and Gold , love all shall be thine ; Why shouldst thou hazard thy Life on the Ocean . and leave me in sorrow here to repine ? Cease my sweet Susan , for I am engaged , with Noble Commanders to Sail on the Main . Love , let thy sorrows and tears be assuaged , dear be but contented and do not complain : Let not my absence my jewel so grieve thee , the pride of my Heart and joy of my mind , Take here my Ring as a pledge I will leave thee , and I will be faithful , love thou shalt find . Then from her fair Eyes the tears they did trickle , like streams that flow'd down from the fountain of love , Faithful and Loyal , and scorns to be fickle , her heart it was fired and could not remove ; Susan in sorrow almost brokenhearted , the wind it did serve with a most pleasant gale , Then these two Lovers , alas ! they were parted , for the goodly Ship was now under Sail : Now he is gone , may the Heavens protect him , from all the proud Waves of the Tempestuous Main , Keep him from danger , and always direct him , and send him in safety to England again : Here to complete our joys with a blessing , in a true Lovers knot which can ne'r be unty'd ; All that is mine , he shall then be possessing , and never depart till Death us divide . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . FAITHFUL JEMMY , And Constant SUSAN , Living near Reddriff . When Jemmy he was bound to Sea , Susan she did complain , Said he , my Dear , be of good cheer , while I return again . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . JEMMY and SUSAN both loving and Loyal , and in their Embraces their joys did abound , Fortune divided them , this was a trial , sweet Susan with sorrow encompassed round : Now he was forced to leave his sweet Susan , and also commanded to hoist up their Sail , This was a grief to them both in conclusion , ah ! how she in sorrow then did bewail . Thus his sweet Susan alas ! she lamented , she blaming the fate and her fortune unkind , Jemmy beholding his heart then relented , he said my dear Creature , thou surely shalt find : Though for a time we must now be divided , my heart I will lodge and lay up in thy breast , If by the powers above we are guided , when I return my dear love shall be blessed . I do desire to have Life no longer , then I do intend to prove true to my Dear , Though for a time we are parted asunder , yet I will be faithful , love be of good cheer : Never was creature more fair and completer , then my loving Susan , the joy of my mind , Graced with Beauty in every feature , I'le be unchangeable , Love thou shalt find . O that my sighs and my tears were prevailing , my dear to enjoy thee , and all would be well : But in thy absence all blessings are failing , sweet Jemmy 'tis thee that my grief can expel : Love do not leave me , sweet Jemmy reprieve me , now from those sad sighing , and sorrow and grief , Thou hast my heart , dear Jemmy believe me , then take some pity and yield me relief . My dearest Jemmy , the Seas they have danger , when in raging Tempests the Billows do roar , I to those sorrows my Love am a stranger , and wh [ e ] n thou art gone I shall ne'r see thee more : I have five hundred pounds to my portion , in Silver and Gold , love all shall be thine ; Why shouldst thou hazard thy Life on the Ocean . and leave me in sorrow here to repine ? Cease my sweet Susan , for I am engaged , with Noble Commanders to Sail on the Main . Love , let thy sorrows and tears be assuaged , dear be but contented and do not complain : Let not my absence my jewel so grieve thee , the pride of my Heart and joy of my mind , Take here my Ring as a pledge I will leave thee , and I will be faithful , love thou shalt find . Then from her fair Eyes the tears they did trickle , like streams that flow'd down from the fountain of love , Faithful and Loyal , and scorns to be fickle , her heart it was fired and could not remove ; Susan in sorrow almost brokenhearted , the wind it did serve with a most pleasant gale , Then these two Lovers , alas ! they were parted , for the goodly Ship was now under Sail : Now he is gone , may the Heavens protect him , from all the proud Waves of the Tempestuous Main , Keep him from danger , and always direct him , and send him in safety to England again : Here to complete our joys with a blessing , in a true Lovers knot which can ne'r be unty'd ; All that is mine , he shall then be possessing , and never depart till Death us divide . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 