Cheat upon Cheat , OR , The Debauched Hypocrite . Being a True Account of two Maidens , who lived in London near Fish-street , the one be - ing nam Susan , the oaths Sarah , Susan , being dressed in men Apparel , Court - ed Sarah , to the Great Trouble of the deceived Damsel , who thought to be pleasur'd by her Bridals Nights Lodging as you may find by the sequel . When Maidens come to Love and Dote . And want the use of man , Against their wills they needs must show't Let them do what they can . To the Tunof , Tender hearts of London City . COme and hear the strangest Story , Ever Fortune lay'd before you , of a wedding strange but true , For such a one was never known , as I will now declare to you . There was two maids in London-City One was wanton 'tother witty ; Sue and Sarah were their Names , It does appear they married were , and Sarah tasted Cupids flames . A Gentleman that lived nigh 'um , Had a mighty mind to try 'um , and this Susan did engage , That she would go and Court her so , that she her passion might assuage , Disguis'd went she , and fell to wooing Sarah she would needs be doing , so she quickly gave consent , They soon agreed to match with speed , but now poor Sarah does lament . Susan strangely was disguised , Sarahs heart was soon surprised , so that she did condescend , She ne'r deny'd to be a Bride , but her young Lover did commend . While her joys were thus compelated , Sarah was extremely cheated , which did make her vitals fail , To bed they went with joint consent , and she found a Cat without a Tail . Now is Sarah much concerned , But by this some wit she Learned , though she for it paid full dear , For from her eyes , with fresh supplies , down trickles many a brackish tear . Sarah thought love her befriended , Tow but mark what this attended , and 'twill make you much admire , That Susan she , so arch should be , to set poor Sarahs heart on fire . With Sword & Wigg was Susan dressed Sarah thought that she was blessed , with a Gallant none more fair , But pity 'twas , a wanton Lass , should be so much mistaken there . Now is Sarah discontented , Her misfortune much lamented , Maidens then pray have a care , Lest Susan comes with Sugar plums , to bring poor damsels into a snare . Quoth Sarah why would you abuse one , Whom yuo lov'd deceitful Susan , why would you me thus betray , O then quoth she , 'twas jollity , that made me thus the antic play . Let no one know how you miscary'd , How mistaken when you marry'd , for 'twill make the world to laugh , You walked your round , & then you found a Constable without a Staff . Wonder not why this I write you , To be merry I invite you , and to none I harm do think , Let Sarah grieve , Sue did deceive , which made poor Sarahs heart to sink . To all Maids let this be a warning , All are wise that still are learning , Beauty is a mere decoy , Then have a care , lest Cupids snare , do make you curse the blinking Boy . Printed for , I Blare , at the Looking-Glass in the New-Buildings on London-Bridge . Cheat upon Cheat , OR , The Debauched Hypocrite . Being a True Account of two Maidens , who lived in London near Fish-street , the one be - ing nam Susan , the oaths Sarah , Susan , being dressed in men Apparel , Court - ed Sarah , to the Great Trouble of the deceived Damsel , who thought to be pleasur'd by her Bridals Nights Lodging as you may find by the sequel . When Maidens come to Love and Dote . And want the use of man , Against their wills they needs must show't Let them do what they can . To the Tunof , Tender hearts of London City . COme and hear the strangest Story , Ever Fortune lay'd before you , of a wedding strange but true , For such a one was never known , as I will now declare to you . There was two maids in London-City One was wanton 'tother witty ; Sue and Sarah were their Names , It does appear they married were , and Sarah tasted Cupids flames . A Gentleman that lived nigh 'um , Had a mighty mind to try 'um , and this Susan did engage , That she would go and Court her so , that she her passion might assuage , Disguis'd went she , and fell to wooing Sarah she would needs be doing , so she quickly gave consent , They soon agreed to match with speed , but now poor Sarah does lament . Susan strangely was disguised , Sarahs heart was soon surprised , so that she did condescend , She ne'r deny'd to be a Bride , but her young Lover did commend . While her joys were thus compelated , Sarah was extremely cheated , which did make her vitals fail , To bed they went with joint consent , and she found a Cat without a Tail . Now is Sarah much concerned , But by this some wit she Learned , though she for it paid full dear , For from her eyes , with fresh supplies , down trickles many a brackish tear . Sarah thought love her befriended , Tow but mark what this attended , and 'twill make you much admire , That Susan she , so arch should be , to set poor Sarahs heart on fire . With Sword & Wigg was Susan dressed Sarah thought that she was blessed , with a Gallant none more fair , But pity 'twas , a wanton Lass , should be so much mistaken there . Now is Sarah discontented , Her misfortune much lamented , Maidens then pray have a care , Lest Susan comes with Sugar plums , to bring poor damsels into a snare . Quoth Sarah why would you abuse one , Whom yuo lov'd deceitful Susan , why would you me thus betray , O then quoth she , 'twas jollity , that made me thus the antic play . Let no one know how you miscary'd , How mistaken when you marry'd , for 'twill make the world to laugh , You walked your round , & then you found a Constable without a Staff . Wonder not why this I write you , To be merry I invite you , and to none I harm do think , Let Sarah grieve , Sue did deceive , which made poor Sarahs heart to sink . To all Maids let this be a warning , All are wise that still are learning , Beauty is a mere decoy , Then have a care , lest Cupids snare , do make you curse the blinking Boy . Printed for , I Blare , at the Looking-Glass in the New-Buildings on London-Bridge . 