The PROTESTANT Seaman's Resolution To Fight for King WILLIAM . OR , The Total Destruction of Popery in this Reformed Land and Nation . To the Tune of , The Souldier's Departure . COme brave noble hearted Seamen , let us all with Courage stand , To maintain our Natives free men , in this Ancient Christian Land ; That Room never may enslave us , by their crafty Villainy ; We'll not do as they would have us , but will pull down Popery . This great Prince is come from Holland , to maintain the Nations right ; We by Sea will bravely fallen on , when there shall be need to fight ; Cannons roar like Claps of Thunder , on the foaming Ocean Sea , For to keep the Roman under , and to pull down Popery . These two Fleets are joyn'd together , Brittains blessing to regain . Fearing neither Wind nor Weather , Boys , we'll blow the Ocean main ; For to drive the world before us , as our Enemies shall see , France shall soon our Rights restore us , for we'll pull down Popery . Let true valiant Souls assemble , scorning ever to retreat , Till we make all France to tremble , at our vast commanding Fleet ; Boys , we'll keep them in subjection , for we vow to keep the Sea ; King William will be our protection , while we pull down Popery . May the French King have no Trading to the Lands which we belong , But let's seize his Ships of Lading , to retaliate our wrong : Nay , and likewise for his Merit , the Pope's Vassal may he be , Or else drown'd himself in Claret , while we pull down Popery . They have felt great Brittains power in the former ages passed , And there's Seamen to this hour , that will fight while Life does last , For their Native Land and Nation , On the stormy Ocean Sea ; Now without all Disputation , we shall pull down Popery . I on board my Name will enter , and not stand the least to pause , Life and Fortune freely venture , to maintain the Christian Cause ; What can be a greater Glory , than to fight for Liberty ? Send our Foes to Purgatory , as we pull down Popery . Might I have the greatest treasure , which the Nation can afford , And enjoy both peace and pleasure , yet I'de freely go on b [ oh ] ard : This my Duty does require , for to fight for Liberty , Make our proudest Foes retire , likewise pull down Popery . To reward the hateful malice , of the Antichristian Slaves , Send them hence to Pluto's Palace , make the foaming Seas their Graves : Let them make their Invocation , to their old St. Anthony , While we purge and clear the Nation , from the Dregs of Popery . Printed for J. Blare . The PROTESTANT Seaman's Resolution To Fight for King WILLIAM . OR , The Total Destruction of Popery in this Reformed Land and Nation . To the Tune of , The Souldier's Departure . COme brave noble hearted Seamen , let us all with Courage stand , To maintain our Natives free men , in this Ancient Christian Land ; That Room never may enslave us , by their crafty Villainy ; We'll not do as they would have us , but will pull down Popery . This great Prince is come from Holland , to maintain the Nations right ; We by Sea will bravely fallen on , when there shall be need to fight ; Cannons roar like Claps of Thunder , on the foaming Ocean Sea , For to keep the Roman under , and to pull down Popery . These two Fleets are joyn'd together , Brittains blessing to regain . Fearing neither Wind nor Weather , Boys , we'll blow the Ocean main ; For to drive the world before us , as our Enemies shall see , France shall soon our Rights restore us , for we'll pull down Popery . Let true valiant Souls assemble , scorning ever to retreat , Till we make all France to tremble , at our vast commanding Fleet ; Boys , we'll keep them in subjection , for we vow to keep the Sea ; King William will be our protection , while we pull down Popery . May the French King have no Trading to the Lands which we belong , But let's seize his Ships of Lading , to retaliate our wrong : Nay , and likewise for his Merit , the Pope's Vassal may he be , Or else drown'd himself in Claret , while we pull down Popery . They have felt great Brittains power in the former ages passed , And there's Seamen to this hour , that will fight while Life does last , For their Native Land and Nation , On the stormy Ocean Sea ; Now without all Disputation , we shall pull down Popery . I on board my Name will enter , and not stand the least to pause , Life and Fortune freely venture , to maintain the Christian Cause ; What can be a greater Glory , than to fight for Liberty ? Send our Foes to Purgatory , as we pull down Popery . Might I have the greatest treasure , which the Nation can afford , And enjoy both peace and pleasure , yet I'de freely go on b [ oh ] ard : This my Duty does require , for to fight for Liberty , Make our proudest Foes retire , likewise pull down Popery . To reward the hateful malice , of the Antichristian Slaves , Send them hence to Pluto's Palace , make the foaming Seas their Graves : Let them make their Invocation , to their old St. Anthony , While we purge and clear the Nation , from the Dregs of Popery . Printed for J. Blare . 