THE Courtiers Health ; OR The merry BOYES of the TIMES He that loves Sack , does nothing lack , If he but Loyal be , He that denies Bacchus supplies Shows mere Hypocrisy . To a new Tune , Come Boys fill us a Bumper , Or My Lodging is on the Cold ground . Here she stands and fills it out amain , Says they let's have the' tother Bout agan . COme boys fill us a Bumper , we'l make the Nation Roar , She's grown sick of a Rumper that sticks on the old score . Por on Phanatticks rout 'um , they thirst for our blood , We'l Taxes raise without 'um , and drink for the Nations good . Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a brimmer to the KING . Round around , fill a fresh one , let no man hawk his Wine , We'l drink to the next in Succession , and keep it in the Right Line . Bring us ten thousand glasses , the more we drink we'r a dry , We mind not the beautiful Lasses whose Conquest lies all in the eye . Charge the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a brimmer to the KING . WE Boys are truly Loyal , for Charles we'l venture all , We know his blood is Royal , his Name shall never fallen . But those that seek his ruin may chance to die before him , While we that Sack are woeing , for ever will adore him ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING , I hate those strange dissenters that strives to hawk a glass , He that at all Adventures will see what comes to pass : And let the Popish Faction disturb us if they can , They ne'r shall breed distraction in a true hearted man . Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Let the Phanatticks grumble to see things cross their grain , We'l make them now more humble or ease them of their pain : They shall drink Sack amain too or else they shall be choak't , We'l tell 'um 'tis in vain too for us to be provok't . Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . He that denies the Brimmer shall banish't be in this Isle , And we will look more grimmer till he begins to smile : We'l drown'd him in Canary and make him all our own , And when his Heart is merry he'l drink to Charles in's Throne ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Quakers and Annabaptist we'l sink them in a glass , He deals most plain and flattest that says he loves a Lass : Then tumble down Canary and let your brains go round , For he that won't be merry he can't at heart be found ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-Smithfield . THE Courtiers Health ; OR The merry BOYES of the TIMES He that loves Sack , does nothing lack , If he but Loyal be , He that denies Bacchus supplies Shows mere Hypocrisy . To a new Tune , Come Boys fill us a Bumper , Or My Lodging is on the Cold ground . Here she stands and fills it out amain , Says they let's have the' tother Bout agan . COme boys fill us a Bumper , we'l make the Nation Roar , She's grown sick of a Rumper that sticks on the old score . Por on Phanatticks rout 'um , they thirst for our blood , We'l Taxes raise without 'um , and drink for the Nations good . Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a brimmer to the KING . Round around , fill a fresh one , let no man hawk his Wine , We'l drink to the next in Succession , and keep it in the Right Line . Bring us ten thousand glasses , the more we drink we'r a dry , We mind not the beautiful Lasses whose Conquest lies all in the eye . Charge the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a brimmer to the KING . WE Boys are truly Loyal , for Charles we'l venture all , We know his blood is Royal , his Name shall never fallen . But those that seek his ruin may chance to die before him , While we that Sack are woeing , for ever will adore him ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING , I hate those strange dissenters that strives to hawk a glass , He that at all Adventures will see what comes to pass : And let the Popish Faction disturb us if they can , They ne'r shall breed distraction in a true hearted man . Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Let the Phanatticks grumble to see things cross their grain , We'l make them now more humble or ease them of their pain : They shall drink Sack amain too or else they shall be choak't , We'l tell 'um 'tis in vain too for us to be provok't . Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . He that denies the Brimmer shall banish't be in this Isle , And we will look more grimmer till he begins to smile : We'l drown'd him in Canary and make him all our own , And when his Heart is merry he'l drink to Charles in's Throne ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Quakers and Annabaptist we'l sink them in a glass , He deals most plain and flattest that says he loves a Lass : Then tumble down Canary and let your brains go round , For he that won't be merry he can't at heart be found ; Fill the Pottles and Gallons and bring the Hogshead in , We'l begin with a Tallen a Brimmer to the KING . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-Smithfield . 