A Lamentable Ballad of the Tragical end of a Gallant Lord and a Virtuous Lady , with the untimely end of their two Children , wickedly performed by a Heathenish Blackamoor their servan the like never herd of . The Tune is , The Ladys Fallen . IN Rome a Noble man did wed , a Virgin of great fame . A fairer creature never did dame nature ever frame ; By whom he had two Children fair , whose beauty did excel : They were their parents only joy , they loved them both so well . The Lord he loved to hunt the buck , the tiger and the boar : And still for swiftness always took with him a Blackamoor : Which Blackamoor within the wood , his Lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct , in hope's he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , then homeward he did haste , Where with his Lady he did rest , until the night was pass Then in the morning he did rise , and did his servants call ; A hunting he provides to go , straight they were ready all . To Cause the toil the Lady did entreat him not to go ; Alas good Lady , then quoth he , why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself I will return with speed to thee again : Good Father ( quoth the little Babes ) with us here still remain . Farewell dear children , I will go a fine thing for to buy : But they therewith nothing content , aloud began to cry : The Mother takes them by the hand , saying , come go with me Unto the highest Tower , where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now ( who then did stay behind ) His Lord to be a Hunting gone , began to call to mind : My Master he did me correct , my fault not being grea Now of his wife i'le be reveng'd , she shall not me entreat . The place was moted round about , the bridge he up did draw ; The gates he bolted very fast , of none he stood in awe : He up into the Tower went , the Lady being there : Who when she saw his countenance grim she straight began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes to think what I must write ; My senses all begin to fail , my soul it does affrigh Yet I must make and end of this which here I have begun , Which will make sad the hardest heart , before that I have done . This wretch unto the Lady went , and her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy , his mind for to fulfil : The Lady she amazed was , to hear the Villain speak , Alas ( quoth she ) what shall I do ? with grief my heart will break . With that he took her in his arms , she straight for help did cry : Content yourself Lady ( she said ) your Husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the gates are shut , therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow thy Butcher I will be . The Crystal tears ran down her face , her children cried amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , but all it was in vain : For that outrageous filthy Rogue , her hands behind her bound , And then perforce with all his might , he threw her on the ground . With that she shrieked , her children cry'd and such a noise did make , That towns-folks , hearing her lament did seek their parts to take : But all in vain no way was found to help the Ladies need : Who cried to them most piteously , o help , o help with speed . Some run into the Forest wide , her Lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament this gallant Ladies fallen . With speed her love came posting home he could not enter in , His Ladies cries did pierce his heart , to call he did begin . O hold thy hand thou savage Moor , to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure if I do live , wild Horses shall thee tear : With that the Rogue ran to the wall , he having had his will , And brought one child under his arm his dearest blood to spill . The Child seeing his Father there , to him for help did call : Oh Father help my Mother dear , we shall be killed all : Then fell the Lord upon his knee , and did the Moor entreat , To save the life of his poor child . whose fear as then was great . But this vile wretch the little Child by both the heels did take , And dashed his brains against the wall , while Parents hearts did ache : That being done straightway he ran the other child to fetch , And plucked it from the Mother's breast most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought , the Child within the other ; And holding it over the wall , saying , thus die shall thy mother : With that he cut the throat of it , then to the Father he did call : To look how he the head had cut , and down the head did fallen . This done he threw it down the wall , into the Mote so deep , which made the Father wring his hands and grievously to weep . Then to the lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear : Yet this vile wretch most cruelly did drag her by the hair . And drew her to the very wall , which when the Lord did see , Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his knee : Quoth he , If thou wilt save her life , whom I do love so dear : I will forgive thee all is past , though they concern me near . O save her life I thee beseech , Oh save her I thee pray , And I will grant thee what thou wilt demand of me this day : Well , quoth the Moor , I do regard the moan that thou dost make : If thou wilt grant me what I ask , i'll save her for thy sake . O save her life and then demand of me what thing thou will Cut off thy Nose , and not one drop of her blood shall be spil With that the Lord presently took a knife within his hand ; And then his Nose he quite cut off , in place where he did stand . Now I have bought the Ladys life , then to the Moor did call : Then take her , quod this wicked rogue , and down he let her fallen : Which when her gallant Lord did see , his senses all did fail : Yet many sought to save his life yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , then did he laugh amain At them who for their gallant Lord and Lady did complain : Quoth he , I know you'll torture me , if that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear , nor yet regard one whit . Wild Horses shall my body tear , I know it to be true , But I'll prevent you of that pain , and down himself he threw : too good a death for such a wretch , a Villain void of fear , And thus does end as sad a tale , as ever man did hear . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of London . A Lamentable Ballad of the Tragical end of a Gallant Lord and a Virtuous Lady , with the untimely end of their two Children , wickedly performed by a Heathenish Blackamoor their servan the like never herd of . The Tune is , The Ladys Fallen . IN Rome a Noble man did wed , a Virgin of great fame . A fairer creature never did dame nature ever frame ; By whom he had two Children fair , whose beauty did excel : They were their parents only joy , they loved them both so well . The Lord he loved to hunt the buck , the tiger and the boar : And still for swiftness always took with him a Blackamoor : Which Blackamoor within the wood , his Lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct , in hope's he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , then homeward he did haste , Where with his Lady he did rest , until the night was pass Then in the morning he did rise , and did his servants call ; A hunting he provides to go , straight they were ready all . To Cause the toil the Lady did entreat him not to go ; Alas good Lady , then quoth he , why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself I will return with speed to thee again : Good Father ( quoth the little Babes ) with us here still remain . Farewell dear children , I will go a fine thing for to buy : But they therewith nothing content , aloud began to cry : The Mother takes them by the hand , saying , come go with me Unto the highest Tower , where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now ( who then did stay behind ) His Lord to be a Hunting gone , began to call to mind : My Master he did me correct , my fault not being grea Now of his wife i'le be reveng'd , she shall not me entreat . The place was moted round about , the bridge he up did draw ; The gates he bolted very fast , of none he stood in awe : He up into the Tower went , the Lady being there : Who when she saw his countenance grim she straight began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes to think what I must write ; My senses all begin to fail , my soul it does affrigh Yet I must make and end of this which here I have begun , Which will make sad the hardest heart , before that I have done . This wretch unto the Lady went , and her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy , his mind for to fulfil : The Lady she amazed was , to hear the Villain speak , Alas ( quoth she ) what shall I do ? with grief my heart will break . With that he took her in his arms , she straight for help did cry : Content yourself Lady ( she said ) your Husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the gates are shut , therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow thy Butcher I will be . The Crystal tears ran down her face , her children cried amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , but all it was in vain : For that outrageous filthy Rogue , her hands behind her bound , And then perforce with all his might , he threw her on the ground . With that she shrieked , her children cry'd and such a noise did make , That towns-folks , hearing her lament did seek their parts to take : But all in vain no way was found to help the Ladies need : Who cried to them most piteously , o help , o help with speed . Some run into the Forest wide , her Lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament this gallant Ladies fallen . With speed her love came posting home he could not enter in , His Ladies cries did pierce his heart , to call he did begin . O hold thy hand thou savage Moor , to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure if I do live , wild Horses shall thee tear : With that the Rogue ran to the wall , he having had his will , And brought one child under his arm his dearest blood to spill . The Child seeing his Father there , to him for help did call : Oh Father help my Mother dear , we shall be killed all : Then fell the Lord upon his knee , and did the Moor entreat , To save the life of his poor child . whose fear as then was great . But this vile wretch the little Child by both the heels did take , And dashed his brains against the wall , while Parents hearts did ache : That being done straightway he ran the other child to fetch , And plucked it from the Mother's breast most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought , the Child within the other ; And holding it over the wall , saying , thus die shall thy mother : With that he cut the throat of it , then to the Father he did call : To look how he the head had cut , and down the head did fallen . This done he threw it down the wall , into the Mote so deep , which made the Father wring his hands and grievously to weep . Then to the lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear : Yet this vile wretch most cruelly did drag her by the hair . And drew her to the very wall , which when the Lord did see , Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his knee : Quoth he , If thou wilt save her life , whom I do love so dear : I will forgive thee all is past , though they concern me near . O save her life I thee beseech , Oh save her I thee pray , And I will grant thee what thou wilt demand of me this day : Well , quoth the Moor , I do regard the moan that thou dost make : If thou wilt grant me what I ask , i'll save her for thy sake . O save her life and then demand of me what thing thou will Cut off thy Nose , and not one drop of her blood shall be spil With that the Lord presently took a knife within his hand ; And then his Nose he quite cut off , in place where he did stand . Now I have bought the Ladys life , then to the Moor did call : Then take her , quod this wicked rogue , and down he let her fallen : Which when her gallant Lord did see , his senses all did fail : Yet many sought to save his life yet nothing could prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , then did he laugh amain At them who for their gallant Lord and Lady did complain : Quoth he , I know you'll torture me , if that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear , nor yet regard one whit . Wild Horses shall my body tear , I know it to be true , But I'll prevent you of that pain , and down himself he threw : too good a death for such a wretch , a Villain void of fear , And thus does end as sad a tale , as ever man did hear . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of London . 