The AGE of MAN , Displayed in TEN different Stages of LIFE . IN prime of Years when I was Young , I took Delight in youthful Toys , Not knowing then what did belong Unto the Pleasure of those Days : At Seven Years old I was a Child , And subject then to be beguil'd , At Two Times Seven I must needs go learn What Discipline was taught at School , Then Good from Evil I could discern , And thought Myself no more a Child ; My Parents were contriving then , How I might Live when I became a Man. At Three Times Seven I waxed Wild , And Manhood led me to be Bold , I thought Myself no more a Child , My own Conceit it so Me told : Then did I venture Far and Near To buy Delight at a Price full Dear . At Four Times Seven I must take a Wife , And leave off all my wanton Ways ? Thinking thereby perhaps to Thrive , And save Myself from sad Disgrace : So Farewell now , my companions all , For another Business does Me Call . At Five Times Seven I would go prove What I could gain by Art or Skill , But still against the Stream I strove , And bowl'd up Stones against the Hill : The more I labour'd with Might and Maiu , The more I strove against the Stream . At Six Times Seven all Covetousness Began to harbour in my Breast , My Mind then still contriving was , How I might gain this Worldly Wealth : To purchase Lands and live on them , To make my Children Mighty Men . At Seven Times Seven all Worldly Care Began to harbour [ i ] n my Brain , Then did I drink a heavy Draught Of Water of Experience plain : There was none so ready then as I , To purchase Bargains , to fell or Buy . At Eight Times Seven I waxed Old , And took myself unto my Rest , My Neighbours then my Council crav'd , And I was had in great Reques But Age did so abate my Strength , That I was forc'd to yield at length . At Nine Times Seven I must take my Leave Of all my former vain Delights , And then full soar it did me grieve , I fetched many a bitter Sighs ; To rise up early and fit up late , I was no longer fit , my Strength did abate . At Ten Times Seven my Glass was run , And I poor silly Man must die ; I looked up and saw the Sun Had overcome the crystal Sky ; And now I must this World forsake , And another Man my Place must take . Now you may see as in a Glass , The whole Estate of Mortal Men , How they from Seven to Seven do pass , Until they are Threescore and Ten : And when their Glass is fully run , They must leave off where they first began . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . st The AGE of MAN , Displayed in TEN different Stages of LIFE . IN prime of Years when I was Young , I took Delight in youthful Toys , Not knowing then what did belong Unto the Pleasure of those Days : At Seven Years old I was a Child , And subject then to be beguil'd , At Two Times Seven I must needs go learn What Discipline was taught at School , Then Good from Evil I could discern , And thought Myself no more a Child ; My Parents were contriving then , How I might Live when I became a Man. At Three Times Seven I waxed Wild , And Manhood led me to be Bold , I thought Myself no more a Child , My own Conceit it so Me told : Then did I venture Far and Near To buy Delight at a Price full Dear . At Four Times Seven I must take a Wife , And leave off all my wanton Ways ? Thinking thereby perhaps to Thrive , And save Myself from sad Disgrace : So Farewell now , my companions all , For another Business does Me Call . At Five Times Seven I would go prove What I could gain by Art or Skill , But still against the Stream I strove , And bowl'd up Stones against the Hill : The more I labour'd with Might and Maiu , The more I strove against the Stream . At Six Times Seven all Covetousness Began to harbour in my Breast , My Mind then still contriving was , How I might gain this Worldly Wealth : To purchase Lands and live on them , To make my Children Mighty Men . At Seven Times Seven all Worldly Care Began to harbour [ i ] n my Brain , Then did I drink a heavy Draught Of Water of Experience plain : There was none so ready then as I , To purchase Bargains , to fell or Buy . At Eight Times Seven I waxed Old , And took myself unto my Rest , My Neighbours then my Council crav'd , And I was had in great Reques But Age did so abate my Strength , That I was forc'd to yield at length . At Nine Times Seven I must take my Leave Of all my former vain Delights , And then full soar it did me grieve , I fetched many a bitter Sighs ; To rise up early and fit up late , I was no longer fit , my Strength did abate . At Ten Times Seven my Glass was run , And I poor silly Man must die ; I looked up and saw the Sun Had overcome the crystal Sky ; And now I must this World forsake , And another Man my Place must take . Now you may see as in a Glass , The whole Estate of Mortal Men , How they from Seven to Seven do pass , Until they are Threescore and Ten : And when their Glass is fully run , They must leave off where they first began . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . st 