The KING and the BISHOP : OR , Unlearned Men , hard matters out can find , When learned Bishops Princes eyes do blind To the Tune of , Chievy-Chase . IN Popish time when Bishops proud , in England did bear sway , Their Lordship's did like Princes live , and kept all at obey : Their Palaces with Arrace hang'd , their Houses shin'd with gold , Their train of gallant Gentlemen , most gallant to behold : A King then in this Land did Reign , ( some say it was Henry ) One day he for a Bishop sent , his Scholarship to try : Then straightway to the Court he went , in all his Pomp and State , And took it for a favour great , upon the King to wait ; And when he came unto the King , he did both bow and bend , His Graces Pleasure he did crave , why he for him did send . Bishop , quoth he , I sent for thee , to put thee to a task , And I resolved true will be , of three things I will ask . And three weeks time I will thee give on it to meditate , And then if you not tell me true , I vow to have thy pate . If that it like your Majesty , ( the Bishop then did say ) I'le try the utmost of my skill , your will for to obey . The first thing now , then said the King , is this that I would know , Unto a very hour the time a Traveller may go About the vast and spacious world , and then return again , Unto the place he did set forth , and this I know would fain . The second thing that try you must , even to one poor Half-Crown , What I am worth that am a King , ( this made the Bishop frown ) The third thing it is this , he said , the which you must explain , To tell me what I do think , when you come here again . And now good Bishop you do know what things I do desire , And for to be resolv'd therefore of you I do require : Tell me the truth and keep your time , or else your head shall fly From off your shoulders when you come , your wits you now must try : These are hard things to be resolv'd , unto the King , he said , No man on earth can tell the same , I greatly am afraid : Yet I will try my greatest skill , and so he took his leave ; The task and sentence both were hard , which made his Lordship grieve , The second part , to the same Tune . WHen he came home , to study hard the Bishop then did go , His brains did hammer in his head , his heart was fill'd with woe : But yet for all his Learning great , these things he could not find , The time began for to expire , which did torment his mind : The heavy sentence of the King , did touch him to the quick , With grief and overstudying , he presently fell sick : The Bishop he a Brother had , a man that hard did fare , A Shepherd by Profession , for whom he did not care . This Shepherd when that he did hear his brother sick did lie , To visit him he did think best , before that he should die : With much ado , at length he god admittance him to see , It griev'd the poor man at the heart , at this his misery ; Saluting his Lord brother then , asked him how he did doe , He answered him with heavy heart , Oh full of grief and woe : You cannot help my misery , no man my life can save , The task's too hard for me to do , the King my head will have . Dear brother ( then the Shepherd said ) to me your grief explain , And if that I can save your life , i'le venture to be slave : The Bishop told him everything , cause he ado did make , If this be all , the Shepherd said , the same i'le undertake . You know that we are very like , in person , speech , and face , Let me put on your Robes of State , i'le execute the place : Your trains of Gallants to the Court , must bear me company , And if I do not tell these things , instead of you i'le die . The time being come , next day he went to see his Majesty , Who presently was entertain'd with Courtlike Courtesy : Now welcome Bishop ( quoth the King ) can you resolve me true ? And if you cannot , he did say , I know what I must do . Unto your Grace's Question , the first I answer make , Let any man ascend the Sky , and the Sun's Chariot take , In four and twenty hours time about the world may ride , The which is but one day and night , this journey to abide . Thou sayest true , then said the King , unto the second then , Now unto that ( the Shepherd said ) I answer thus again , The King of Kings , our Saviour Christ , for thirty pence was sold , I undervalue you by far , for all your Crown of Gold , Then said the King , Bishop 'tis right , what thou hast said before , Now tell me truly what I think , and I will ask no more : You think that I the Bishop am , the Shepherd then did say , Why so I think , then quoth the King , in spite of all says nay : You have confessed I told your thought , an't like your Majesty . Although I wear the Bishop's Robe , a Shepherd poor am I : One Father and one Mother both we had , and Brothers are , And for to please your Royal Grace , my brother had a care . He now lies sick near unto death , and hither me did send , Who bid me tell you all these things , for fear he should offend . Commend me to him ( quoth the King ) and thank him heartily , He now hath satis [ f ] y'd my mind , and pleased well am I . A hundred pound the King bestow'd upon the Shepherd then , And taking leave away he went with all his Gentlemen : When to the Bishop he did come , all things he did relate , He thanked his Brother , and was glad , of this his happy fate , Upon him he bestow'd a Farm , of Forty pounds a year , As well he might , for he did find of him a Brother dear : And thus unlearned men sometime , hard matters out can find , When Learned Bishops miss the mark , and Princes eyes do blind . Printed b [ y Alexander Milbourne , at ] the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court [ in Little -- ] Old-Baily . The KING and the BISHOP : OR , Unlearned Men , hard matters out can find , When learned Bishops Princes eyes do blind To the Tune of , Chievy-Chase . IN Popish time when Bishops proud , in England did bear sway , Their Lordship's did like Princes live , and kept all at obey : Their Palaces with Arrace hang'd , their Houses shin'd with gold , Their train of gallant Gentlemen , most gallant to behold : A King then in this Land did Reign , ( some say it was Henry ) One day he for a Bishop sent , his Scholarship to try : Then straightway to the Court he went , in all his Pomp and State , And took it for a favour great , upon the King to wait ; And when he came unto the King , he did both bow and bend , His Graces Pleasure he did crave , why he for him did send . Bishop , quoth he , I sent for thee , to put thee to a task , And I resolved true will be , of three things I will ask . And three weeks time I will thee give on it to meditate , And then if you not tell me true , I vow to have thy pate . If that it like your Majesty , ( the Bishop then did say ) I'le try the utmost of my skill , your will for to obey . The first thing now , then said the King , is this that I would know , Unto a very hour the time a Traveller may go About the vast and spacious world , and then return again , Unto the place he did set forth , and this I know would fain . The second thing that try you must , even to one poor Half-Crown , What I am worth that am a King , ( this made the Bishop frown ) The third thing it is this , he said , the which you must explain , To tell me what I do think , when you come here again . And now good Bishop you do know what things I do desire , And for to be resolv'd therefore of you I do require : Tell me the truth and keep your time , or else your head shall fly From off your shoulders when you come , your wits you now must try : These are hard things to be resolv'd , unto the King , he said , No man on earth can tell the same , I greatly am afraid : Yet I will try my greatest skill , and so he took his leave ; The task and sentence both were hard , which made his Lordship grieve , The second part , to the same Tune . WHen he came home , to study hard the Bishop then did go , His brains did hammer in his head , his heart was fill'd with woe : But yet for all his Learning great , these things he could not find , The time began for to expire , which did torment his mind : The heavy sentence of the King , did touch him to the quick , With grief and overstudying , he presently fell sick : The Bishop he a Brother had , a man that hard did fare , A Shepherd by Profession , for whom he did not care . This Shepherd when that he did hear his brother sick did lie , To visit him he did think best , before that he should die : With much ado , at length he god admittance him to see , It griev'd the poor man at the heart , at this his misery ; Saluting his Lord brother then , asked him how he did doe , He answered him with heavy heart , Oh full of grief and woe : You cannot help my misery , no man my life can save , The task's too hard for me to do , the King my head will have . Dear brother ( then the Shepherd said ) to me your grief explain , And if that I can save your life , i'le venture to be slave : The Bishop told him everything , cause he ado did make , If this be all , the Shepherd said , the same i'le undertake . You know that we are very like , in person , speech , and face , Let me put on your Robes of State , i'le execute the place : Your trains of Gallants to the Court , must bear me company , And if I do not tell these things , instead of you i'le die . The time being come , next day he went to see his Majesty , Who presently was entertain'd with Courtlike Courtesy : Now welcome Bishop ( quoth the King ) can you resolve me true ? And if you cannot , he did say , I know what I must do . Unto your Grace's Question , the first I answer make , Let any man ascend the Sky , and the Sun's Chariot take , In four and twenty hours time about the world may ride , The which is but one day and night , this journey to abide . Thou sayest true , then said the King , unto the second then , Now unto that ( the Shepherd said ) I answer thus again , The King of Kings , our Saviour Christ , for thirty pence was sold , I undervalue you by far , for all your Crown of Gold , Then said the King , Bishop 'tis right , what thou hast said before , Now tell me truly what I think , and I will ask no more : You think that I the Bishop am , the Shepherd then did say , Why so I think , then quoth the King , in spite of all says nay : You have confessed I told your thought , an't like your Majesty . Although I wear the Bishop's Robe , a Shepherd poor am I : One Father and one Mother both we had , and Brothers are , And for to please your Royal Grace , my brother had a care . He now lies sick near unto death , and hither me did send , Who bid me tell you all these things , for fear he should offend . Commend me to him ( quoth the King ) and thank him heartily , He now hath satis [ f ] y'd my mind , and pleased well am I . A hundred pound the King bestow'd upon the Shepherd then , And taking leave away he went with all his Gentlemen : When to the Bishop he did come , all things he did relate , He thanked his Brother , and was glad , of this his happy fate , Upon him he bestow'd a Farm , of Forty pounds a year , As well he might , for he did find of him a Brother dear : And thus unlearned men sometime , hard matters out can find , When Learned Bishops miss the mark , and Princes eyes do blind . Printed b [ y Alexander Milbourne , at ] the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court [ in Little -- ] Old-Baily . 