BALLAD . To the Tune of Couragio . 1. COme , come , great Orange , come away On thy August Voyagio : The Church and State admit no stay , and Protestants wou'd once more say Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . 2. Stand East , dear Wind , till they arrive On their design'd Voyagio , And let each Noble Soul alive Cry loud , Qu'il Prince d'Aurange vive ! Couragio , etc 3 Look sharp , and see the Glorious Fleet Appear in their Voyagio ! With loud Huzzas we will them greet , And with both Arms and Armies meet ; Couragio , etc 4. Then , welcome to our English shore : And now I will engage --- oh , We'l thump the Babylonish Whore , And kick her Trump'ries out of Door ; Couragio , etc 5. Poor Berwick ! how will thy Dear-Joys Oppose this brave Voyagio ? Thy tallest Sparks will be mere Toys To Brandenburgh and Swedish Boys ; Couragio , etc 6. Dunbarton sputters now , like mad , Against this great Voyagio ; Old Craven too in Sable's clad ; And Feversham looks monstrous sad : Couragio , etc 7. But Solmes has took a Glorious Cause In this warlike Voyagio , To guard us from their ravening Paws , And to protect our Lives and Laws ; Couragio , etc 8. Nassaw will ridicule the Fop By this Belgic Voyagio , And make their gawdy Feathers drop ; Their Slaughter's but a Harvest-Crop : Couragio , etc 9. Stirum , advance the Buda Blades Thou'st brought in this Voyagio : And , since thy Laurel never fades , Send our Foes to the Stygian Shades ; Couragio , etc 10 Schombergh thunders Hero-like In this Stormy Voyagio ; His very Name dos Horror strike , And will slay more than Gun or Pike ; Couragio , etc 11. Thus they the Victory will gain , After their brave Voyagio ; And all our Liberties maintain , And settle Church and State again : Couragio , etc 12. Then't will be Just , and no Extreme , To see by this Voyagio , That Wem shou'd have th' Effect of's Dream For Driving headlong with the Stream ; Couragio , etc 13 The Judges too , that Traitors be , Must truss by this Voyagio ; 'Twill be a Noble Sighed , to see Dispensing Scarlet on a Tree ! Couragio , etc 14. The Monks away full swift will high On their dismal Voyagio : Ten Pounds a Post-Horse then they cry , And all away to Calis fly ; Couragio , etc 15. Sunderland has Shot the Pit , And is on his Voyagio ; D'ada must no more hatching fit ; And Petre too the Board must qui Couragio , etc 16. Old Arundel does hang his Ears Because of this Voyagio ; And Miser Powys stews in Tears ; Bellasis roars , and damns , and swears : Couragio , etc 17. When all is done , we then shall hope To see , by this Voyagio , No more Nuncio , no more Pope ; Except it be to have a Rope : Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . FINIS . BALLAD . To the Tune of Couragio . 1. COme , come , great Orange , come away On thy August Voyagio : The Church and State admit no stay , and Protestants wou'd once more say Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . 2. Stand East , dear Wind , till they arrive On their design'd Voyagio , And let each Noble Soul alive Cry loud , Qu'il Prince d'Aurange vive ! Couragio , etc 3 Look sharp , and see the Glorious Fleet Appear in their Voyagio ! With loud Huzzas we will them greet , And with both Arms and Armies meet ; Couragio , etc 4. Then , welcome to our English shore : And now I will engage --- oh , We'l thump the Babylonish Whore , And kick her Trump'ries out of Door ; Couragio , etc 5. Poor Berwick ! how will thy Dear-Joys Oppose this brave Voyagio ? Thy tallest Sparks will be mere Toys To Brandenburgh and Swedish Boys ; Couragio , etc 6. Dunbarton sputters now , like mad , Against this great Voyagio ; Old Craven too in Sable's clad ; And Feversham looks monstrous sad : Couragio , etc 7. But Solmes has took a Glorious Cause In this warlike Voyagio , To guard us from their ravening Paws , And to protect our Lives and Laws ; Couragio , etc 8. Nassaw will ridicule the Fop By this Belgic Voyagio , And make their gawdy Feathers drop ; Their Slaughter's but a Harvest-Crop : Couragio , etc 9. Stirum , advance the Buda Blades Thou'st brought in this Voyagio : And , since thy Laurel never fades , Send our Foes to the Stygian Shades ; Couragio , etc 10 Schombergh thunders Hero-like In this Stormy Voyagio ; His very Name dos Horror strike , And will slay more than Gun or Pike ; Couragio , etc 11. Thus they the Victory will gain , After their brave Voyagio ; And all our Liberties maintain , And settle Church and State again : Couragio , etc 12. Then't will be Just , and no Extreme , To see by this Voyagio , That Wem shou'd have th' Effect of's Dream For Driving headlong with the Stream ; Couragio , etc 13 The Judges too , that Traitors be , Must truss by this Voyagio ; 'Twill be a Noble Sighed , to see Dispensing Scarlet on a Tree ! Couragio , etc 14. The Monks away full swift will high On their dismal Voyagio : Ten Pounds a Post-Horse then they cry , And all away to Calis fly ; Couragio , etc 15. Sunderland has Shot the Pit , And is on his Voyagio ; D'ada must no more hatching fit ; And Petre too the Board must qui Couragio , etc 16. Old Arundel does hang his Ears Because of this Voyagio ; And Miser Powys stews in Tears ; Bellasis roars , and damns , and swears : Couragio , etc 17. When all is done , we then shall hope To see , by this Voyagio , No more Nuncio , no more Pope ; Except it be to have a Rope : Couragio , Couragio , Couragio . FINIS . 