Barbara Allen's Cruelty : OR , THE Young-man's Tragedy . With Barbara Allen's Lamentation for her Unkindness to her Lover , and her Self . To the Tune of Barbara Allen . Licensed according to Order . IN Scarlet Town where I was bound , there was a fair Maid dwelling , Whom I had chosen to be my own and her name it was Barbara Allen . All in the merry Month of May , when green leaves they was springing , This young man on his Deathbed lay , for the love of Barbara Allen . He sent his man unto her then , to the Town where she was dwelling , You must come to my Master dear , if your name be Barbara Allen . For Death is printed in his face , and sorrow's in him dwelling , And you must come to my Master dear , if your name be Barbara Allen . If Death be printed in his face , and sorrows in him dwelling , Then little better shall he be , for bonny Barbara Allen . So slowly , slowly she god up , and so slowly she came to him , And all she said when she came there , Young man I think you are a dying . He turn'd his face unto her then , if you be Barbara Allen . My dear said he , come pity me , as on my Death-Bed I am lying . If on your Death Bed you be lying , what is that to Barbara Allen . I cannot keep you from Death , so farewell , said Barbara Allen ? He turn'd his face unto the Wall , and Death came creeping to him ; Then adieu , adieu and adieu to all , and adieu to Barbara Allen . And as she was walking on a day , she herd the Bell a Ringing , And it did seem to Ring to her , Unworthy Barbara Allen . She turn'd herself round about , and she spy'd the Corpse a coming ; Lay down lay down the Corpse of Clay , that I may look upon him . And all the while she looked on , so loudly she lay laughing ; While all her Friends cry'd amain , Unworthy Barbara Allen . When he was dead and laid in Grave , then Death came creeping to she Oh Mother ! Mother ! make my Bed for his death hath quite undone we . A hardhearted Creature that I was , to slight one that lov'd me so dearly , I wish I had been more kinder to him , the time of his Life , when he was near me . So this Maid she then did die , and desired to be buried by him , And repented herself before she dy'd , that ever she did deny him . FINIS . Printed for , P. Brooksby J. Deacon . J. Blare J. Back . Barbara Allen's Cruelty : OR , THE Young-man's Tragedy . With Barbara Allen's Lamentation for her Unkindness to her Lover , and her Self . To the Tune of Barbara Allen . Licensed according to Order . IN Scarlet Town where I was bound , there was a fair Maid dwelling , Whom I had chosen to be my own and her name it was Barbara Allen . All in the merry Month of May , when green leaves they was springing , This young man on his Deathbed lay , for the love of Barbara Allen . He sent his man unto her then , to the Town where she was dwelling , You must come to my Master dear , if your name be Barbara Allen . For Death is printed in his face , and sorrow's in him dwelling , And you must come to my Master dear , if your name be Barbara Allen . If Death be printed in his face , and sorrows in him dwelling , Then little better shall he be , for bonny Barbara Allen . So slowly , slowly she god up , and so slowly she came to him , And all she said when she came there , Young man I think you are a dying . He turn'd his face unto her then , if you be Barbara Allen . My dear said he , come pity me , as on my Death-Bed I am lying . If on your Death Bed you be lying , what is that to Barbara Allen . I cannot keep you from Death , so farewell , said Barbara Allen ? He turn'd his face unto the Wall , and Death came creeping to him ; Then adieu , adieu and adieu to all , and adieu to Barbara Allen . And as she was walking on a day , she herd the Bell a Ringing , And it did seem to Ring to her , Unworthy Barbara Allen . She turn'd herself round about , and she spy'd the Corpse a coming ; Lay down lay down the Corpse of Clay , that I may look upon him . And all the while she looked on , so loudly she lay laughing ; While all her Friends cry'd amain , Unworthy Barbara Allen . When he was dead and laid in Grave , then Death came creeping to she Oh Mother ! Mother ! make my Bed for his death hath quite undone we . A hardhearted Creature that I was , to slight one that lov'd me so dearly , I wish I had been more kinder to him , the time of his Life , when he was near me . So this Maid she then did die , and desired to be buried by him , And repented herself before she dy'd , that ever she did deny him . FINIS . Printed for , P. Brooksby J. Deacon . J. Blare J. Back . 