The Hasty Bridegroom . OR , The rarest sport that hath been try'd , Between a lusty Bridegroom and his Bride . To the Tune of , Pass his Carrier : or , Bow-Bells . COme from the Temple away to the Bed , as the Merchant tran [ s ] ports some his treasure Be not so coy Lady since we are wed , 'tis no since to taste of the pleasure . then come let us be blithe merry and free , Upon my life all the waiters are gone , and 'tis so , that they know , where you go , say not no , For I mean to make bold with my own . What is it to me though our hands joined be ; if our bodies be still kept asunder , Shall it be said there goes a marry'd Maid , indeed we will have no such wonder ; therefore lets embrace , there's none sees thy face , The Bride-Maids that waited are gone ; none can spy , how you lie , ne'er deny , but say I , For I mean to make bold with my own . Then come let us kiss , and taste of that bliss , which brave Lords and Ladies injoy'd : If Maidens should be of the humour of thee ; Generations would soon be destroy'd : then where were those joys , the Girls and the Boys , Would'st live in the World all alone , don't destroy , but enjoy , seem not coy , for a toy : For indeed I'll make bold with my own . SWeet love do not frown , but put off thy gown 'tis a Garment unfit for the night , Some say that black hath a relishing smack , I had rather be dealing in white , then be not afraid , for you are not betray'd , Since we are together alone , I invite you this night , to do right , my delight , Is forthwith to make use of my own . Prithee begin , don't delay , but unpin , for my humour I cannot prevent it , You are strait lac [ ' ] worser , and you Gorgets so fast , undo it , or I straight will rend it , or to end all the strife , I'll cut it with my knife , 'Tis too long to stay till 'tis undone , Let thy waste , Be unlac'd , And in haste , Be embrac'd , For I do long to make bold with my own . Feel with your hand , how you make me to stand , even ready to starve in the cold , O why should'st thou be , so hardhearted to me , that loves thee more dear than gold , And as thou hast been , Like fair Venus the Queen , Most pleasant in thy parts every one , let me find , that thy mind Is inclin'd to be kind , So that I may make bold with my own . As thou art fair , and more sweet than the air , that dallies on July's brave Roses : Now let me be , to that Garden a key , that the flowers of Virgins incloses , and I will not be , too rough unto thee , For my nature unto boldness is prove , Do no less , then undress , and unlace , all a pace , For this night i'le make use with my own , When I have found thee temperate and found , thy sweet breast I will make for my Pillow , 'Tis pity that we which newly Married be , should be forced to wear the green Willow . We shall be blessed , and live sweetly at rest , Now we are united in one ; With content , And consent , I am bent , My intent , Is this Night to make bold with my own . The Ladies loving reply . WElcome dear love , all the powers above , are well pleased at our happy meeting , The Heavens have decreed , & the Earth is agreed , that I should embrace my own sweating , at bed and at board , both in deed and in word , My affection to thee shall be shown : Thou art mine , I am thine , Let us join , And combine , I'll not bar thee from what is thy own . Our Bride-beds made , thou shalt be my comrade . for to lodge in my arms all the night , Where thou shalt enjoy , being free from annoy , all the sports wherein love takes delight , Our Mirth shall be crown'd , and our triumph renown'd , Then Sweetheart let thy valour be shown , Take thy fill , Do thy will , Use thy skill , Welcome still , Why shouldst thou not make bold with thy own . The Bridegroom and Bride , with much joy on each side , then together to bed they did go , But what they did there , I did neither see nor hear , nor I do not desire to know , But by Cupids aid , They being well laid . They made sport by themselves all alone . Being plac'd , And unlac'd , He unceas'd , She imbrac'd , Then he stoutly made bold with his own . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Ownly , and T. Thackeary at the Angel in Duck-lane . The Hasty Bridegroom . OR , The rarest sport that hath been try'd , Between a lusty Bridegroom and his Bride . To the Tune of , Pass his Carrier : or , Bow-Bells . COme from the Temple away to the Bed , as the Merchant tran [ s ] ports some his treasure Be not so coy Lady since we are wed , 'tis no since to taste of the pleasure . then come let us be blithe merry and free , Upon my life all the waiters are gone , and 'tis so , that they know , where you go , say not no , For I mean to make bold with my own . What is it to me though our hands joined be ; if our bodies be still kept asunder , Shall it be said there goes a marry'd Maid , indeed we will have no such wonder ; therefore lets embrace , there's none sees thy face , The Bride-Maids that waited are gone ; none can spy , how you lie , ne'er deny , but say I , For I mean to make bold with my own . Then come let us kiss , and taste of that bliss , which brave Lords and Ladies injoy'd : If Maidens should be of the humour of thee ; Generations would soon be destroy'd : then where were those joys , the Girls and the Boys , Would'st live in the World all alone , don't destroy , but enjoy , seem not coy , for a toy : For indeed I'll make bold with my own . SWeet love do not frown , but put off thy gown 'tis a Garment unfit for the night , Some say that black hath a relishing smack , I had rather be dealing in white , then be not afraid , for you are not betray'd , Since we are together alone , I invite you this night , to do right , my delight , Is forthwith to make use of my own . Prithee begin , don't delay , but unpin , for my humour I cannot prevent it , You are strait lac [ ' ] worser , and you Gorgets so fast , undo it , or I straight will rend it , or to end all the strife , I'll cut it with my knife , 'Tis too long to stay till 'tis undone , Let thy waste , Be unlac'd , And in haste , Be embrac'd , For I do long to make bold with my own . Feel with your hand , how you make me to stand , even ready to starve in the cold , O why should'st thou be , so hardhearted to me , that loves thee more dear than gold , And as thou hast been , Like fair Venus the Queen , Most pleasant in thy parts every one , let me find , that thy mind Is inclin'd to be kind , So that I may make bold with my own . As thou art fair , and more sweet than the air , that dallies on July's brave Roses : Now let me be , to that Garden a key , that the flowers of Virgins incloses , and I will not be , too rough unto thee , For my nature unto boldness is prove , Do no less , then undress , and unlace , all a pace , For this night i'le make use with my own , When I have found thee temperate and found , thy sweet breast I will make for my Pillow , 'Tis pity that we which newly Married be , should be forced to wear the green Willow . We shall be blessed , and live sweetly at rest , Now we are united in one ; With content , And consent , I am bent , My intent , Is this Night to make bold with my own . The Ladies loving reply . WElcome dear love , all the powers above , are well pleased at our happy meeting , The Heavens have decreed , & the Earth is agreed , that I should embrace my own sweating , at bed and at board , both in deed and in word , My affection to thee shall be shown : Thou art mine , I am thine , Let us join , And combine , I'll not bar thee from what is thy own . Our Bride-beds made , thou shalt be my comrade . for to lodge in my arms all the night , Where thou shalt enjoy , being free from annoy , all the sports wherein love takes delight , Our Mirth shall be crown'd , and our triumph renown'd , Then Sweetheart let thy valour be shown , Take thy fill , Do thy will , Use thy skill , Welcome still , Why shouldst thou not make bold with thy own . The Bridegroom and Bride , with much joy on each side , then together to bed they did go , But what they did there , I did neither see nor hear , nor I do not desire to know , But by Cupids aid , They being well laid . They made sport by themselves all alone . Being plac'd , And unlac'd , He unceas'd , She imbrac'd , Then he stoutly made bold with his own . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Ownly , and T. Thackeary at the Angel in Duck-lane . 