ROMAN CHARITY . IN Room I read a nobleman , The emperor did offend , For that fault he was adjudg'd , Unto a cruel end . That he should be in prison cast , With irons many a one , And there be famished to death , And brought to skin and bone . Beside if anyone was known , By night or eke by day , To bring him any kind of food , His hunger to allay . Th' emperor swore a mighty oath Without remorse , quoth he , Shall sustain the cruelest death , That can devised be . Cruel sentence thus pronounc'd The nobleman was cast , Into a dungeon dark and deep , With irons fetter'd fast . When he had with hunger great Remained ten days space , And tasted neither meat or drink In a most woeful case . The tears along his aged face , Most piteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin , Complaining thus to call . O Lord , said he , what shall I do ? So hungry am I , For want of bred , a bit of bred I perish , starve and die . Had I th' dungeon full of gold , I now would give it all , To buy & purchase a small loaf , Yea , were it e'er so small . O that I had but every day , The bit of bred to eat , Ono't be mouldy , black or brown My comfort would be great . Yet , tho' I was to take it up , Trod down in dirt and mire It would be pleasant to my taste , And sweet to my desire . O that some pretty small mouse , So much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust Into this place to me . But Oh my heart it is in vain , No succour can I have , No meat , nor drink , nor water , My loathed life to save . Bring some bred for Christ's sake Some bred , some bred to me , I die , I die for want of food , None but stone walls I see . So ev'ry night & day he cry'd , In such outrageous sort , That all the people far and near , Were griev'd at his report . Tho' many great friends he had , And daughters in the town , None durst come to succour him Fearing the emperor's frown . Yet now behold a daughter dear He had as we do find , Who liv'd in his displeasure great For not wedding to his mind . Altho' she liv'd in mean estate , She was a virtuous wife , And for to help her father dear , She ventured her life . She then to her sisters went , And of them did entreat , That by some means they would , Convey their father meat . Our father does starve said she , The emperor's wrath is such , He die , alas ! for want of food , Whereof we have too much . prey sisters use some means , His life for to preserve , And suffer not our father dear , In prison for to starve . Alas said they what shall we do , His hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death for anyone That would his life maintain . Tho' we wish him well said they We never will agree , To spoil ourselves , we had as live That he should die as we . And sister if you love yourself , Let this attempt alone , Tho' you do ne'er so secret work In time it will be known . O has our father brought us up And nourish'd us quoth she , And shall we forsake him quite , In his extremity , No , I will venture life and limb , To do my father good , The worst that is , I can but die , To save him I'll shed my blood . With that in haste away she flies And to the prison goes , But with her dismal father dear , She might not speak , God knows Except the emperor would grant , Her father in that case , The keeper would admit of none To enter in that place , That she unto the emperor hies And falling on her knees , With wringing hands & bitter cries These words pronounced she : My helpless father , sov'reign liege Offending of your grace , Is judg'd unto a pining death , Within a dismal place . Which I confess he has deserv'd Yet mighty prince said she , Vouchsafe graciously to grant , One simple boon to me . It chanced so I match'd myself , Against my father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath As fortune had assign'd . And seeing now the time is come He must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I speak to him , Before the hour of death . And reconcile myself to him , His favour to obtain , As when he die I may not then Under his curse remain . The emperor grants her request Conditionally that she , Each day she to her father went , Should thoroughly searched be . No meat or drink she brought , To help him there distress'd , But every day she nourish'd him With milk from her own breast . By her milk he was preserv'd , A twelvemonth and a day , And was so fair and fat to see , Yet none could tell which way , The emperor musing thereat , At length did understand , How he was fed , and not his law Was broke at any hand . Much admired at the same , And her great virtues shown , He pardon'd him , & honour'd her With great preferments known . Her father ever after that , Loved her as his life , Blessed the day that she was made , A virtuous loving wife . ROMAN CHARITY . IN Room I read a nobleman , The emperor did offend , For that fault he was adjudg'd , Unto a cruel end . That he should be in prison cast , With irons many a one , And there be famished to death , And brought to skin and bone . Beside if anyone was known , By night or eke by day , To bring him any kind of food , His hunger to allay . Th' emperor swore a mighty oath Without remorse , quoth he , Shall sustain the cruelest death , That can devised be . Cruel sentence thus pronounc'd The nobleman was cast , Into a dungeon dark and deep , With irons fetter'd fast . When he had with hunger great Remained ten days space , And tasted neither meat or drink In a most woeful case . The tears along his aged face , Most piteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin , Complaining thus to call . O Lord , said he , what shall I do ? So hungry am I , For want of bred , a bit of bred I perish , starve and die . Had I th' dungeon full of gold , I now would give it all , To buy & purchase a small loaf , Yea , were it e'er so small . O that I had but every day , The bit of bred to eat , Ono't be mouldy , black or brown My comfort would be great . Yet , tho' I was to take it up , Trod down in dirt and mire It would be pleasant to my taste , And sweet to my desire . O that some pretty small mouse , So much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust Into this place to me . But Oh my heart it is in vain , No succour can I have , No meat , nor drink , nor water , My loathed life to save . Bring some bred for Christ's sake Some bred , some bred to me , I die , I die for want of food , None but stone walls I see . So ev'ry night & day he cry'd , In such outrageous sort , That all the people far and near , Were griev'd at his report . Tho' many great friends he had , And daughters in the town , None durst come to succour him Fearing the emperor's frown . Yet now behold a daughter dear He had as we do find , Who liv'd in his displeasure great For not wedding to his mind . Altho' she liv'd in mean estate , She was a virtuous wife , And for to help her father dear , She ventured her life . She then to her sisters went , And of them did entreat , That by some means they would , Convey their father meat . Our father does starve said she , The emperor's wrath is such , He die , alas ! for want of food , Whereof we have too much . prey sisters use some means , His life for to preserve , And suffer not our father dear , In prison for to starve . Alas said they what shall we do , His hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death for anyone That would his life maintain . Tho' we wish him well said they We never will agree , To spoil ourselves , we had as live That he should die as we . And sister if you love yourself , Let this attempt alone , Tho' you do ne'er so secret work In time it will be known . O has our father brought us up And nourish'd us quoth she , And shall we forsake him quite , In his extremity , No , I will venture life and limb , To do my father good , The worst that is , I can but die , To save him I'll shed my blood . With that in haste away she flies And to the prison goes , But with her dismal father dear , She might not speak , God knows Except the emperor would grant , Her father in that case , The keeper would admit of none To enter in that place , That she unto the emperor hies And falling on her knees , With wringing hands & bitter cries These words pronounced she : My helpless father , sov'reign liege Offending of your grace , Is judg'd unto a pining death , Within a dismal place . Which I confess he has deserv'd Yet mighty prince said she , Vouchsafe graciously to grant , One simple boon to me . It chanced so I match'd myself , Against my father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath As fortune had assign'd . And seeing now the time is come He must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I speak to him , Before the hour of death . And reconcile myself to him , His favour to obtain , As when he die I may not then Under his curse remain . The emperor grants her request Conditionally that she , Each day she to her father went , Should thoroughly searched be . No meat or drink she brought , To help him there distress'd , But every day she nourish'd him With milk from her own breast . By her milk he was preserv'd , A twelvemonth and a day , And was so fair and fat to see , Yet none could tell which way , The emperor musing thereat , At length did understand , How he was fed , and not his law Was broke at any hand . Much admired at the same , And her great virtues shown , He pardon'd him , & honour'd her With great preferments known . Her father ever after that , Loved her as his life , Blessed the day that she was made , A virtuous loving wife . 