A Worthy EXAMPLE of a Virtuous WIFE , who fed her FATHER with her own Milk , he being commanded by the Emperor to be Starved to Death , and afterwards pardoned . Tune is , Flying Fame . Licens'd and Entered according to Order . IN Rome , I read , a Nobleman , the Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudg'd unto a cruel end : That he should be in prison cast , with irons many and one , And there be famish'd unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night , or yet by day , To bring him any kind of food , his hunger to allay ; The Emperor swore a mighty oath , Without remorse , quoth he , They shall sustain the cruelest death that can devised be . This cruel sentenc'd once pronounc'd , the Nobleman was cast Into a dungeon dark and deep , with irons fetter'd fast ; Where , when he had with hunger great remained ten days space , And tasted neither meat nor drink , in a most woeful case : The tears along his aged face most piteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin for to complain withal : Oh Lord , quoth he , what shall I do , so hungry , Lord , am I , For want of bred , one bit of bred , I perish , starve and die ? How precious is one grain of wheat , unto my hungry soul , One crust , or crumb , or little piece , my hunger to control ; Had I this dungeon heap'd with gold , I would forego it all , To buy and purchase one brown loaf , yea , were it ne'er so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of bred to eat , Tho' ne'er so mouldy , black or brown , my comfort would be great ; Yea , albeit , I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good Lord , how happy is the hind , that labours all the day , The drudging mule , the Peasant poor , that at command do stay ; They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs & crusts that they do carelessly let fallen . How happy is that little chick , that without fear may go And pick up those most precious crumbs which they away do throw : Oh that some pretty little mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust into this place to me . But o , my heart , it is in vain , no succour can I have , No meat , nor drink , nor water eke , my loathed life to save : Oh bring some bred for Christ his sake , some bred , some bred for me , I die , I die for want of food , none but stone walls I see . Thus day and night he cried out , in most outrageous sort , That all the People far and near was griev'd at his repor And though that many Friends he had , and Daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one Daughter dear he had , as I do find , Who liv'd in his displeasure great , for matching 'gainst his mind ; Although she liv'd in mean estate , she was a virtuous Wife , And for to help her Father dear , she ventur'd thus her life : She quickly to her Sisters went , and of them did entreat , That by some secret means , they would convey their Father mea Our Father dear does starve , she said , the Emperor's wrath is such , He dies , alas , for want of food , whereof we have too much . prey Sisters , therefore use some means his life for to preserve , And suffer not your Father dear , in prison for to starve . Alas , quoth they , what shall we do his hunger to sustain ? You know 'tis death for anyone that would his life maintain . And tho' we wish him well , quoth they , we never will agree , To spoil ourselves , we had as leif , that he should die as we ; And Sister , if you love yourself , let this attempt alone , Though you do ne'er so secret work , at length it will be known . O , hath our Father brought us up , and nourished us , quoth she , And shall we now forsake him quite , in his extremity ; No , I will venture life and limb , to do my Father good ; The worst that is , I can but die , to fit a Tyrant's mood . With that , in haste , away she hies , and to the prison goes , But with her woeful Father dear , she might not speak , God knows ; Except the Emperor would grant her favour in that case , The Keeper would admit no Wight to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands , and bitter tears , these words pronounced she : My hopeless Father , gracious Lord , offending of your Grace , Is judg'd unto a pining death , within a woeful place : Which I confess he hath deserv'd , yet mighty Prince , ( quoth she , ) Vouchsafe in gracious sort , to grant one simple boon to me : It chanced so , I match'd myself against my Father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , as Fortune hath assign'd . And seeing now the time is come , he must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak to him , before his hour of death : And reconcile myself to him , his favour to obtain , That when he die , I may not then , under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request conditionally , that she , Each day unto her Father came , should throwly searched be : No meat nor drink she with her brought , to help him there distressed , But ev'ry day she nourished him , with milk from her own breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd , a twelvemonth and a day , And was as fair and fat to see , yet no Man knew which way : The Emperor musing much thereat , at length did understand How he was fed , and not his law was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardon'd him , and honour'd her , with great preferments known : Her Father ever after that , did love her as his life , And blessed the day that she was made a loving wedded Wife . Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . A Worthy EXAMPLE of a Virtuous WIFE , who fed her FATHER with her own Milk , he being commanded by the Emperor to be Starved to Death , and afterwards pardoned . Tune is , Flying Fame . Licens'd and Entered according to Order . IN Rome , I read , a Nobleman , the Emperor did offend , And for that fault he was adjudg'd unto a cruel end : That he should be in prison cast , with irons many and one , And there be famish'd unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night , or yet by day , To bring him any kind of food , his hunger to allay ; The Emperor swore a mighty oath , Without remorse , quoth he , They shall sustain the cruelest death that can devised be . This cruel sentenc'd once pronounc'd , the Nobleman was cast Into a dungeon dark and deep , with irons fetter'd fast ; Where , when he had with hunger great remained ten days space , And tasted neither meat nor drink , in a most woeful case : The tears along his aged face most piteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin for to complain withal : Oh Lord , quoth he , what shall I do , so hungry , Lord , am I , For want of bred , one bit of bred , I perish , starve and die ? How precious is one grain of wheat , unto my hungry soul , One crust , or crumb , or little piece , my hunger to control ; Had I this dungeon heap'd with gold , I would forego it all , To buy and purchase one brown loaf , yea , were it ne'er so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of bred to eat , Tho' ne'er so mouldy , black or brown , my comfort would be great ; Yea , albeit , I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good Lord , how happy is the hind , that labours all the day , The drudging mule , the Peasant poor , that at command do stay ; They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs & crusts that they do carelessly let fallen . How happy is that little chick , that without fear may go And pick up those most precious crumbs which they away do throw : Oh that some pretty little mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust into this place to me . But o , my heart , it is in vain , no succour can I have , No meat , nor drink , nor water eke , my loathed life to save : Oh bring some bred for Christ his sake , some bred , some bred for me , I die , I die for want of food , none but stone walls I see . Thus day and night he cried out , in most outrageous sort , That all the People far and near was griev'd at his repor And though that many Friends he had , and Daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperor's frown . Yet now behold one Daughter dear he had , as I do find , Who liv'd in his displeasure great , for matching 'gainst his mind ; Although she liv'd in mean estate , she was a virtuous Wife , And for to help her Father dear , she ventur'd thus her life : She quickly to her Sisters went , and of them did entreat , That by some secret means , they would convey their Father mea Our Father dear does starve , she said , the Emperor's wrath is such , He dies , alas , for want of food , whereof we have too much . prey Sisters , therefore use some means his life for to preserve , And suffer not your Father dear , in prison for to starve . Alas , quoth they , what shall we do his hunger to sustain ? You know 'tis death for anyone that would his life maintain . And tho' we wish him well , quoth they , we never will agree , To spoil ourselves , we had as leif , that he should die as we ; And Sister , if you love yourself , let this attempt alone , Though you do ne'er so secret work , at length it will be known . O , hath our Father brought us up , and nourished us , quoth she , And shall we now forsake him quite , in his extremity ; No , I will venture life and limb , to do my Father good ; The worst that is , I can but die , to fit a Tyrant's mood . With that , in haste , away she hies , and to the prison goes , But with her woeful Father dear , she might not speak , God knows ; Except the Emperor would grant her favour in that case , The Keeper would admit no Wight to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands , and bitter tears , these words pronounced she : My hopeless Father , gracious Lord , offending of your Grace , Is judg'd unto a pining death , within a woeful place : Which I confess he hath deserv'd , yet mighty Prince , ( quoth she , ) Vouchsafe in gracious sort , to grant one simple boon to me : It chanced so , I match'd myself against my Father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , as Fortune hath assign'd . And seeing now the time is come , he must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak to him , before his hour of death : And reconcile myself to him , his favour to obtain , That when he die , I may not then , under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request conditionally , that she , Each day unto her Father came , should throwly searched be : No meat nor drink she with her brought , to help him there distressed , But ev'ry day she nourished him , with milk from her own breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd , a twelvemonth and a day , And was as fair and fat to see , yet no Man knew which way : The Emperor musing much thereat , at length did understand How he was fed , and not his law was broke at any hand . And much admired at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardon'd him , and honour'd her , with great preferments known : Her Father ever after that , did love her as his life , And blessed the day that she was made a loving wedded Wife . Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 