I Warrant thee Boy , Shee's Righ OR , And exact Character of a Wanton Lass. To a very rare Northern Tune : Or , All Hail to the days , etc COme hither young Sinner Thou raw new beginner , I'le show thee ( if thou canst understand me ) All the ways of a Wench , Be she English or French , More then Ovid's De Arte amandi ; I'le teach thee to know , Both the who , and the how , And the when , and the where to delight ? If she Saint-it , and simper , Look demurely , and whimper ; I'le warrant thee Boy , she's Right . If she turn up her eyes , And plays the presize , She Beds you , if that you do like her : If without joy or fear , She can laugh , or shed tear , 'Tis the only true trick of a striker : If she use many freaks , Or sighs when she speaks , She is deeply in Love by this ligh If you tread on her toe , And she answer you so : I'le warrant thee Boy shee's Right . Shee'l smile , and shee'l frown , Shee'l laugh , and lie down ; At every turn , you must attend her : Shee'l peep in her Glass , And dispraise her own Face , On purpose that you may commend her : With Love Tales , and Chances , Picked out of Romances , Shee'l angle to try if you'l bite : If she speak in a passion , And make Application : I'le warrant thee Boy shee's Right . If she bids you stand at distance , There is no resistance , Her very Retreat is a Call ? Shee'l stare in your eyes , Like a Pirate on his Prize , As if she would cry Have at all : Shee'l show you her breast , To guess at the rest ; And in talking of Love , shee'l deligh If she fit in your lap , Beware of a trap , For I warrant thee Boy , etc Shee'l hit , and shee'l miss , Look coy , and yet kiss , To try and find out what you are ; One actium shall say , Pray Sir go your way , And another cry come and you dare : Shee'l show you a glance , Like Heaven in a trance , No Diamond or Saphir so bright ; If she kiss with Mouth wide , Shee'l do something beside , For I warrant thee Boy , etc Shee'l set you more snares Than her Head-tyre hath hairs , Shee's subtle and swift of invention ; If you jest and mean loosely , Though very Reclusely , Shee'l show you her quick apprehension : Her Plots are abounding Shee'l have Fitts of swooning , If she call on thy Name in the fright ; You need not to miss her , Go to her and Kiss her I'le warrant thee Boy , she's Right . Shee'l Kiss and cry Quarter , And untie her Garter , That you may take up for a Favour ; When you tie it on again , Shee'l cry , Fie , What d'ee mean , Y'are a Person of a rude behaviour : I wonder you dare , Approach me so near . As if I were wanton or light ; If shee's troubled with Qualms , Or sweats in her Palms . I'le warrant thee Boy she's Right . Shee'l bid you forbear , Y' are uncivil my Dear , She Tempts in her very Denial : When her Tongue says , Be gone , Her Looks says , Come on ; These sticklings are only for Trial : When Rams do Retreat , More Courage they get , And Tilt with reduplified might ; No sighed does so move , As the Landskip of Love , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc When Noll stole the Sceptre , She Canted the Scripture , And went to St. Antholin's Lecture ; But now she does Trade , Like a new Reformade , And is a Decoy to the Hector : She swears she is free , From all Men but Thee , And Blushes like a Bride in the Nigh If she squints through her Hood , 'Tis to stir up your Blood , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc Her Turns and her Winds , No Fancy can find , She of such a changeable Temper is ; Shee'l give you a look , Like a Virgin forsook , And another Commands like and Empress : This sign never misses , She Squeaks when she Kisses , And glimmers like Stars in the Night ; If she gives thee a Trip , With her lose under Lip , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc If you meet her by Chance , A la mode de France , Shee'l Salute you , and so go her way ; Yet put her to th' Trial , Shee'l give you no Denial , But soon Condescend for to stay : Such subtle Invention , Hath she for her Intention , Then to the Tavern you must her invite ; Where , if with a Courage , She drink Wine and Burrage , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc Shee'l give thee to wear , A Lock of her Hair , Then for her Prisoner shee'l take you ; But let me Persuade you , To believe , that this Lady Is your own , and will not escape you : Thus have I in brief , Told the Mark of the Thief , That filches Affection by Slight ; But if she Prevail , Th' art a Slave in a Jail , And Honour will bid thee Goodnight . London , Printed for Tho. Vere at the sign of the Angel , without Newgate . 1664. I Warrant thee Boy , Shee's Righ OR , And exact Character of a Wanton Lass. To a very rare Northern Tune : Or , All Hail to the days , etc COme hither young Sinner Thou raw new beginner , I'le show thee ( if thou canst understand me ) All the ways of a Wench , Be she English or French , More then Ovid's De Arte amandi ; I'le teach thee to know , Both the who , and the how , And the when , and the where to delight ? If she Saint-it , and simper , Look demurely , and whimper ; I'le warrant thee Boy , she's Right . If she turn up her eyes , And plays the presize , She Beds you , if that you do like her : If without joy or fear , She can laugh , or shed tear , 'Tis the only true trick of a striker : If she use many freaks , Or sighs when she speaks , She is deeply in Love by this ligh If you tread on her toe , And she answer you so : I'le warrant thee Boy shee's Right . Shee'l smile , and shee'l frown , Shee'l laugh , and lie down ; At every turn , you must attend her : Shee'l peep in her Glass , And dispraise her own Face , On purpose that you may commend her : With Love Tales , and Chances , Picked out of Romances , Shee'l angle to try if you'l bite : If she speak in a passion , And make Application : I'le warrant thee Boy shee's Right . If she bids you stand at distance , There is no resistance , Her very Retreat is a Call ? Shee'l stare in your eyes , Like a Pirate on his Prize , As if she would cry Have at all : Shee'l show you her breast , To guess at the rest ; And in talking of Love , shee'l deligh If she fit in your lap , Beware of a trap , For I warrant thee Boy , etc Shee'l hit , and shee'l miss , Look coy , and yet kiss , To try and find out what you are ; One actium shall say , Pray Sir go your way , And another cry come and you dare : Shee'l show you a glance , Like Heaven in a trance , No Diamond or Saphir so bright ; If she kiss with Mouth wide , Shee'l do something beside , For I warrant thee Boy , etc Shee'l set you more snares Than her Head-tyre hath hairs , Shee's subtle and swift of invention ; If you jest and mean loosely , Though very Reclusely , Shee'l show you her quick apprehension : Her Plots are abounding Shee'l have Fitts of swooning , If she call on thy Name in the fright ; You need not to miss her , Go to her and Kiss her I'le warrant thee Boy , she's Right . Shee'l Kiss and cry Quarter , And untie her Garter , That you may take up for a Favour ; When you tie it on again , Shee'l cry , Fie , What d'ee mean , Y'are a Person of a rude behaviour : I wonder you dare , Approach me so near . As if I were wanton or light ; If shee's troubled with Qualms , Or sweats in her Palms . I'le warrant thee Boy she's Right . Shee'l bid you forbear , Y' are uncivil my Dear , She Tempts in her very Denial : When her Tongue says , Be gone , Her Looks says , Come on ; These sticklings are only for Trial : When Rams do Retreat , More Courage they get , And Tilt with reduplified might ; No sighed does so move , As the Landskip of Love , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc When Noll stole the Sceptre , She Canted the Scripture , And went to St. Antholin's Lecture ; But now she does Trade , Like a new Reformade , And is a Decoy to the Hector : She swears she is free , From all Men but Thee , And Blushes like a Bride in the Nigh If she squints through her Hood , 'Tis to stir up your Blood , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc Her Turns and her Winds , No Fancy can find , She of such a changeable Temper is ; Shee'l give you a look , Like a Virgin forsook , And another Commands like and Empress : This sign never misses , She Squeaks when she Kisses , And glimmers like Stars in the Night ; If she gives thee a Trip , With her lose under Lip , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc If you meet her by Chance , A la mode de France , Shee'l Salute you , and so go her way ; Yet put her to th' Trial , Shee'l give you no Denial , But soon Condescend for to stay : Such subtle Invention , Hath she for her Intention , Then to the Tavern you must her invite ; Where , if with a Courage , She drink Wine and Burrage , I'le warrant thee Boy , etc Shee'l give thee to wear , A Lock of her Hair , Then for her Prisoner shee'l take you ; But let me Persuade you , To believe , that this Lady Is your own , and will not escape you : Thus have I in brief , Told the Mark of the Thief , That filches Affection by Slight ; But if she Prevail , Th' art a Slave in a Jail , And Honour will bid thee Goodnight . London , Printed for Tho. Vere at the sign of the Angel , without Newgate . 1664. 