A most Notable Example of and Ungracious Son who in pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence , turned his Meat to loathsome Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read , A worthy Story strange and true whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Father and a Son , this rare examples stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . A Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest Son , in Paris for to dwell . Where he became a Merchant man , and Traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding Rich , till he himself abused : For having now the world at will , his mind was fully bent , To Gaming , Wine , and Wantonness , till all his Goods were spen Yet through excessive Rioutness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in Debt , than all his wealth was worth . At length his Credit quite was cracked , and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then , did set his Actium fas Then he lay locked in Irons strong , forever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , this grievous Debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent , The lewdness of his former life , too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write : Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving Father dear , And grant I pray , in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear ; Forgive the foul offences all , of your unworthy Son , Which through lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone : Oh my good Father , take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed case , whose heart for woe does bleed : In direful Dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors , in Prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery , some shift dear Father find , My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest Bed , And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . MY Garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold , And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear Father , come therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call : The good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scroul , But trickling tears along his cheeks , most plenteously did roll : Alas my Son , my Son , quoth he ; in wh [ oh ] m [ I ] joy'd most , Thou shalt not long in Prison lie , whatever it may cost . Two hundred head of well fed Beast , he changed into Gold , Four hundred quarters of good Corn , for Silver eke he sold : But all the same could not suffice this hanious fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was , to fell his land away : Then was his Son released quite , his Debt discharged clean , and he as like and well to live , as he before had been : Then when his loving Father dear , who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone : So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry Corpse to feed . His Son mean time in wealth did grow , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so Rich But as his Goods did still increase , and Riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful pride . It fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for some relief at las and being come unto his house , in very poor array , It chanced so that with his son , great store should dine that day : The poor old man with Hat in hand , did then the Porter Pray , To show his son , that at the Gate his Father there did stay : Whereat this proud disdainful wretch , with taunting speeches said , That long ago his father's bones within the Grave was laid : What Rascal then is this ? quoth he , that stains thus my state , I charge thee Porter presently , to drive him from my Gate . Which answer when the old-man herd , he was in mind dismay'd , He wept , he wail'd , and wrung his hands and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou Monster of humanity , and eke thy father's foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy State , and dost thou now most doggedly , enforce me from thy Gate ? and have I wrong'd thy Brothers all , from thrall to set thee free , and brought myself to Beggars state , and all to succour thee ! Woe worth the time that first of all thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy heart , thy Father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his Son and all his Friends were sitting down at mea For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out , and leapt in his face : Then did this wretch his fault confess , and for his father sent , and for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent , all virtuous Children learn by this , obedient hearts to show , and honour still your Parents dear , for God commanded so . and think how he did turn his Meat to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . A most Notable Example of and Ungracious Son who in pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence , turned his Meat to loathsome Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read , A worthy Story strange and true whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Father and a Son , this rare examples stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . A Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest Son , in Paris for to dwell . Where he became a Merchant man , and Traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding Rich , till he himself abused : For having now the world at will , his mind was fully bent , To Gaming , Wine , and Wantonness , till all his Goods were spen Yet through excessive Rioutness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in Debt , than all his wealth was worth . At length his Credit quite was cracked , and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then , did set his Actium fas Then he lay locked in Irons strong , forever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , this grievous Debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent , The lewdness of his former life , too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write : Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving Father dear , And grant I pray , in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear ; Forgive the foul offences all , of your unworthy Son , Which through lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone : Oh my good Father , take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed case , whose heart for woe does bleed : In direful Dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors , in Prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery , some shift dear Father find , My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest Bed , And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . MY Garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold , And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear Father , come therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call : The good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scroul , But trickling tears along his cheeks , most plenteously did roll : Alas my Son , my Son , quoth he ; in wh [ oh ] m [ I ] joy'd most , Thou shalt not long in Prison lie , whatever it may cost . Two hundred head of well fed Beast , he changed into Gold , Four hundred quarters of good Corn , for Silver eke he sold : But all the same could not suffice this hanious fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was , to fell his land away : Then was his Son released quite , his Debt discharged clean , and he as like and well to live , as he before had been : Then when his loving Father dear , who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone : So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry Corpse to feed . His Son mean time in wealth did grow , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so Rich But as his Goods did still increase , and Riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful pride . It fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for some relief at las and being come unto his house , in very poor array , It chanced so that with his son , great store should dine that day : The poor old man with Hat in hand , did then the Porter Pray , To show his son , that at the Gate his Father there did stay : Whereat this proud disdainful wretch , with taunting speeches said , That long ago his father's bones within the Grave was laid : What Rascal then is this ? quoth he , that stains thus my state , I charge thee Porter presently , to drive him from my Gate . Which answer when the old-man herd , he was in mind dismay'd , He wept , he wail'd , and wrung his hands and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou Monster of humanity , and eke thy father's foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy State , and dost thou now most doggedly , enforce me from thy Gate ? and have I wrong'd thy Brothers all , from thrall to set thee free , and brought myself to Beggars state , and all to succour thee ! Woe worth the time that first of all thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy heart , thy Father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his Son and all his Friends were sitting down at mea For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out , and leapt in his face : Then did this wretch his fault confess , and for his father sent , and for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent , all virtuous Children learn by this , obedient hearts to show , and honour still your Parents dear , for God commanded so . and think how he did turn his Meat to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 