THE Suffering LOVER : OR , Fair FLORAMELLA's Melting Petition TO HER Dear PHILANDER . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . IN the deserts of Greenland , where the sun ne'er cast and eye , Blessed with thee , my dear Philander , I could choose to live and die : No nymph with her sly subtle art , E'er shall have power to steal my heart , Thou art all in all in every part , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting for love of thee . On the sands of scorch't Africk , where the sun-burn'd natives fry , Blessed with thee , my dear Philander , I could choose to live and die : No swain with his aid , wit , or art , E'er shall have power to storm my heart , Thou art all in all in every part , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting for love of me . In deserts of Arabia , from which place all creatures fly , Blessed with thee , my dear Philander , I could choose to live and die : Such pleasures I with thee should find , That would ease the anguish of my mind , For to none but thee will I e'er be kind , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting f [ oh ] r love of thee . Thro' the greatest of danger , I would venture with my dear , And my heart should be a stranger , to the sad effects of fear : If on the raging ocean sea , Thou would then my skilful pilot be , Therefore thro' the world I'd wander with thee , Each vein of me , shall every be Panting for love of thee . No joys are worth possessing , thro' the universe below , Should I be deny'd the blessing , of my dear Ph [ i ] lander , tho' I might enjoy a diadem , And in golden streams of pleasure swim , I would slight them all in respect of him , Whom evermore , I will adore , He has my heart in store . Fly to thy Floramella , for to cheer her drooping heart ; Should I wear the wreathe willow , 'Twould be like a fatal dar Then dear Philander come away , I long to see the delightful day , Which will crown our joy with innocent play , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting for love of thee . Let me never be slighted for the love which I bear , lest my wrongs they should be righted , by your languishing despair ; For should you kill me with disdain , Then tears and sorrow would be in vain , A lost life they can't recover again , The veins in me , shall ever be Panting for love of thee . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart in West-smithfield . THE Suffering LOVER : OR , Fair FLORAMELLA's Melting Petition TO HER Dear PHILANDER . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . IN the deserts of Greenland , where the sun ne'er cast and eye , Blessed with thee , my dear Philander , I could choose to live and die : No nymph with her sly subtle art , E'er shall have power to steal my heart , Thou art all in all in every part , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting for love of thee . On the sands of scorch't Africk , where the sun-burn'd natives fry , Blessed with thee , my dear Philander , I could choose to live and die : No swain with his aid , wit , or art , E'er shall have power to storm my heart , Thou art all in all in every part , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting for love of me . In deserts of Arabia , from which place all creatures fly , Blessed with thee , my dear Philander , I could choose to live and die : Such pleasures I with thee should find , That would ease the anguish of my mind , For to none but thee will I e'er be kind , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting f [ oh ] r love of thee . Thro' the greatest of danger , I would venture with my dear , And my heart should be a stranger , to the sad effects of fear : If on the raging ocean sea , Thou would then my skilful pilot be , Therefore thro' the world I'd wander with thee , Each vein of me , shall every be Panting for love of thee . No joys are worth possessing , thro' the universe below , Should I be deny'd the blessing , of my dear Ph [ i ] lander , tho' I might enjoy a diadem , And in golden streams of pleasure swim , I would slight them all in respect of him , Whom evermore , I will adore , He has my heart in store . Fly to thy Floramella , for to cheer her drooping heart ; Should I wear the wreathe willow , 'Twould be like a fatal dar Then dear Philander come away , I long to see the delightful day , Which will crown our joy with innocent play , Each vein of me , shall ever be Panting for love of thee . Let me never be slighted for the love which I bear , lest my wrongs they should be righted , by your languishing despair ; For should you kill me with disdain , Then tears and sorrow would be in vain , A lost life they can't recover again , The veins in me , shall ever be Panting for love of thee . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart in West-smithfield . 