The desperate Damsels Tragedy . OR The faithless young man . To the tune of Dulcina . IN the gallant month of June , When sweet roses are in prime , And each bird with a several tune , Harmoniously salutes the time : then to delight , my appetite I walked into a meadow fair , and in a shade I spied a maid Whose love had brought her to despair . Shee her hands sat sadly wringing Making piteous exclamation , Upon a false Young man for bringing Her into this great vexation : Quoth she false youth , Is there no truth , In thee , of Faith hast thou no share ? no thou hast none , this to well known : By me poor wretch now in despair How oftentimes hast thou protested That thou lovest me well indeed ? And I performed what was requested , Two much trust my woe does breed : I let thee have what thou didst crave , Seduced by thy speeches fair , and having had , thy will false lad , At last thou left'st me in despair . My dearest Jewel thou hast taken , Which should stand me in great stead , And now thou hast me quite forsaken , And art like false AEneas fled , from Dido true : what can ensue , This faithless deed ? but to end my care , like her a knife , must end my life For I like her am in despair . Then sith this so , come gentle death , I yield myself unto thy power , Most willing to resign my breath , I am this instant time and hour : let thy keen dart , such force impart That I may die , o do not spare , from earth I came , and willing am , Hence to return with grim despair : When she these bitter words had spoken From her mind so fraught with woe , Her heart was in her bosom broken Tears abundantly did flow , from her fair eyes , then to the skies , She did direct her hands with prayer , and seem'd to moan , the pow'rs above , To scourge the cause of her despair . The second part , To the same tune . YOu Gods ( quoth she ) I invocate , That as your judgements still are just , My wrongs I pray you vindicate , O may no Maid that young man trus henceforth may he so wretched be , That none for him at all shall care , but that he may for his foul play , Be brought like me to grim despair . Having made and end of praying , Suddenly she drew a knife , And I that near unseen was staying , Ran in haste to save her life , but ere that I to her could cry , That her own life she might forbear , she Dido-like her heart did strike , Thus died the Damsel in despair . With such force herself she stabbed , Blood ran out abundantly , My heart within my bosom throbbed , To behold this Tragedy ; Yet though she bled , she was scarce dead . But gasping lay with her last air , and unto me she spoke words three , Which showed the cause of her despair . Sir ( quoth she ) muse not to see me Desperately myself to slay , For his fatal stroke does free me From disgrace another way : My honours dead , my credits fled , Why therefore should I live in care : this being spoke , her heart strings broke , Thus died the Damsel in despair . When death had done his worst unto her , I did wishly on her look , And by her favour I did know her . Therefore I my Journey took Unto the Town , where she was known , And to her friends I did declare what dismal fate had happened of late , Unto this Damsel in despair . With brinish tears her friends lamented , To hear of her timeless end , And everyone in grief consented , And with me along did weened Unto the place where lay that face , That late alive was fresh and fair , now won and pale cause life did fail , Her life she ended in despair . When this was told to her false Lover , He was of his wits bestraught , And wildly ran the Country over , Home hee'd by no means be borough Let this Tale then warn all young men , Unconstancy still to forbear , For he betrayed this harmless Maid Unto her death through grim despair , FINIS . M.P. London Printed for H.G. The desperate Damsels Tragedy . OR The faithless young man . To the tune of Dulcina . IN the gallant month of June , When sweet roses are in prime , And each bird with a several tune , Harmoniously salutes the time : then to delight , my appetite I walked into a meadow fair , and in a shade I spied a maid Whose love had brought her to despair . Shee her hands sat sadly wringing Making piteous exclamation , Upon a false Young man for bringing Her into this great vexation : Quoth she false youth , Is there no truth , In thee , of Faith hast thou no share ? no thou hast none , this to well known : By me poor wretch now in despair How oftentimes hast thou protested That thou lovest me well indeed ? And I performed what was requested , Two much trust my woe does breed : I let thee have what thou didst crave , Seduced by thy speeches fair , and having had , thy will false lad , At last thou left'st me in despair . My dearest Jewel thou hast taken , Which should stand me in great stead , And now thou hast me quite forsaken , And art like false AEneas fled , from Dido true : what can ensue , This faithless deed ? but to end my care , like her a knife , must end my life For I like her am in despair . Then sith this so , come gentle death , I yield myself unto thy power , Most willing to resign my breath , I am this instant time and hour : let thy keen dart , such force impart That I may die , o do not spare , from earth I came , and willing am , Hence to return with grim despair : When she these bitter words had spoken From her mind so fraught with woe , Her heart was in her bosom broken Tears abundantly did flow , from her fair eyes , then to the skies , She did direct her hands with prayer , and seem'd to moan , the pow'rs above , To scourge the cause of her despair . The second part , To the same tune . YOu Gods ( quoth she ) I invocate , That as your judgements still are just , My wrongs I pray you vindicate , O may no Maid that young man trus henceforth may he so wretched be , That none for him at all shall care , but that he may for his foul play , Be brought like me to grim despair . Having made and end of praying , Suddenly she drew a knife , And I that near unseen was staying , Ran in haste to save her life , but ere that I to her could cry , That her own life she might forbear , she Dido-like her heart did strike , Thus died the Damsel in despair . With such force herself she stabbed , Blood ran out abundantly , My heart within my bosom throbbed , To behold this Tragedy ; Yet though she bled , she was scarce dead . But gasping lay with her last air , and unto me she spoke words three , Which showed the cause of her despair . Sir ( quoth she ) muse not to see me Desperately myself to slay , For his fatal stroke does free me From disgrace another way : My honours dead , my credits fled , Why therefore should I live in care : this being spoke , her heart strings broke , Thus died the Damsel in despair . When death had done his worst unto her , I did wishly on her look , And by her favour I did know her . Therefore I my Journey took Unto the Town , where she was known , And to her friends I did declare what dismal fate had happened of late , Unto this Damsel in despair . With brinish tears her friends lamented , To hear of her timeless end , And everyone in grief consented , And with me along did weened Unto the place where lay that face , That late alive was fresh and fair , now won and pale cause life did fail , Her life she ended in despair . When this was told to her false Lover , He was of his wits bestraught , And wildly ran the Country over , Home hee'd by no means be borough Let this Tale then warn all young men , Unconstancy still to forbear , For he betrayed this harmless Maid Unto her death through grim despair , FINIS . M.P. London Printed for H.G. 