The Life and Death of the Famous THOMAS STUKELY : And English Gallant in time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his Life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune is , King Henry's going to Bulloign , etc IN the West of England , Born their was , I understand a famous Gallant was he in his Days , By Birth a wealthy Clothier's Son , Deeds of Wonders he hath done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I would tell his Story , Pride was all his Glory , and Lusty Stukely , he was call'd in Court , He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself to gallant sort . Being thus esteemed And everywhere well deemed , he gain'd the Favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis she was called then , to whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When she his person spied , He could not be deny'd , so brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his Wife , In Weal or Woe to led her Life ; her Father willing ; thereto did agree . Thus in State and Pleasure , Full many Days they Measure , till cruel Death with his regardless spite , Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might revel all in gold so bright . He was no sooner Tombed , But Stukely he presumed , to spend a hundred pound a Day in waste ; The greatest Gallants in the Land Had Stukely's Purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns and Ordinaries , Were his chief Braveries , Golden Angels there flew up and down ; Riots were his best Delight , With Stately feasting Day and Night , in Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting Lands and Living , By this lawless giving , at length he sold the Pavements of the yard , Which cover'd were with Blocks of Tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed lately as you have herd . Whereat his Wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved , Make much of me dear Husband , she did say , I'll make much more of thee ( said he ) Than anyone shall verily , i'll fell thy Clothes , and so i'll go may way . Cruelly this hard hearted Away from her parted , and travell'd into Italy with speed ; There he flourished many a day , In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Lady's pleasure , To give him goods and treasure , for to maintain him in great pomp and fame ; At last came news assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbary , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble Gallant , Sold both Land and Talon to follow Stukely in his famous fight ; Whereas three Kings in Person would Adventurously with Courage bold , within this Battle show themselves in Fight . Stukely and his Followers all Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen : The King affected Stukely so , That he his Secrets all did know , and boar his Royal Standard now and then . Upon this Day of Honour , Each Man did show his Banner , Morocco , and the King of Barbary : Portugal , and all his Train , Bravely glittering on the Plain , and gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they rebounded , Thundering Guns redounded , Kill kill then was all the Soldiers cry ; Mangled Men lay on the Ground , And with Blood the Earth was drown'd , the Sun likewise was darkened in the Sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , but Tokens of God's Wrath did show , That he was Angry at this War , He sent a fearful Blazing-Star , whereby the Kings might these Misfortunes know . Bloody was the Slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , where sixscore thousand fighting men were slave : Three Kings within this Battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be sought again . With woeful Arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding this Bloody Sacrifice of Souls that Day : He singing said , I woeful Wight , Against my Conscience here do Fight , and brought my Followers all unto Decay . Being thus Molested And with Grief Oppressed , those brave Italians that did Fell their Lands , With Stukely for to Travel forth , And venture Life for little worth , upon him all did lay their Murdering Hands . Unto Death thus wounded His Heart with Sorrow swooned : and to them thus he made his heavy Moan ; Thus have I left my Country dear , To be so vilely Murdered here . e'en in this Place whereas I am not known . My Wife I have much wronged Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle Course of Life ; What I have had is passed I see , And brings nought but Grief to me . therefore grant me pardon gentle Wife . Life I see con [ s ] umeth , And Death I see presumeth , to change this Life of mine into a new : Yet this my greatest Comfort brings , I liv'd and dy'd in love of Kings ; and so brave Stukely bids the World adieu . Stukely's Life thus ended , Was after Death befriended , and like a Soldier buried gallantly : Where now there stands upon the Grave , A stately Temple built brave , with Golden Turrets piercing to the Sky . Printed by and for T. Norris , and C. Brown , and sold at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Life and Death of the Famous THOMAS STUKELY : And English Gallant in time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his Life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbary . Tune is , King Henry's going to Bulloign , etc IN the West of England , Born their was , I understand a famous Gallant was he in his Days , By Birth a wealthy Clothier's Son , Deeds of Wonders he hath done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I would tell his Story , Pride was all his Glory , and Lusty Stukely , he was call'd in Court , He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself to gallant sort . Being thus esteemed And everywhere well deemed , he gain'd the Favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis she was called then , to whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When she his person spied , He could not be deny'd , so brave a Gentleman he was to see ; She was quickly made his Wife , In Weal or Woe to led her Life ; her Father willing ; thereto did agree . Thus in State and Pleasure , Full many Days they Measure , till cruel Death with his regardless spite , Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might revel all in gold so bright . He was no sooner Tombed , But Stukely he presumed , to spend a hundred pound a Day in waste ; The greatest Gallants in the Land Had Stukely's Purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns and Ordinaries , Were his chief Braveries , Golden Angels there flew up and down ; Riots were his best Delight , With Stately feasting Day and Night , in Court and City thus he wone renown . Thus wasting Lands and Living , By this lawless giving , at length he sold the Pavements of the yard , Which cover'd were with Blocks of Tin , Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed lately as you have herd . Whereat his Wife soar grieved , Desiring to be relieved , Make much of me dear Husband , she did say , I'll make much more of thee ( said he ) Than anyone shall verily , i'll fell thy Clothes , and so i'll go may way . Cruelly this hard hearted Away from her parted , and travell'd into Italy with speed ; There he flourished many a day , In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Lady's pleasure , To give him goods and treasure , for to maintain him in great pomp and fame ; At last came news assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbary , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a noble Gallant , Sold both Land and Talon to follow Stukely in his famous fight ; Whereas three Kings in Person would Adventurously with Courage bold , within this Battle show themselves in Fight . Stukely and his Followers all Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen : The King affected Stukely so , That he his Secrets all did know , and boar his Royal Standard now and then . Upon this Day of Honour , Each Man did show his Banner , Morocco , and the King of Barbary : Portugal , and all his Train , Bravely glittering on the Plain , and gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they rebounded , Thundering Guns redounded , Kill kill then was all the Soldiers cry ; Mangled Men lay on the Ground , And with Blood the Earth was drown'd , the Sun likewise was darkened in the Sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , but Tokens of God's Wrath did show , That he was Angry at this War , He sent a fearful Blazing-Star , whereby the Kings might these Misfortunes know . Bloody was the Slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , where sixscore thousand fighting men were slave : Three Kings within this Battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be sought again . With woeful Arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding this Bloody Sacrifice of Souls that Day : He singing said , I woeful Wight , Against my Conscience here do Fight , and brought my Followers all unto Decay . Being thus Molested And with Grief Oppressed , those brave Italians that did Fell their Lands , With Stukely for to Travel forth , And venture Life for little worth , upon him all did lay their Murdering Hands . Unto Death thus wounded His Heart with Sorrow swooned : and to them thus he made his heavy Moan ; Thus have I left my Country dear , To be so vilely Murdered here . e'en in this Place whereas I am not known . My Wife I have much wronged Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle Course of Life ; What I have had is passed I see , And brings nought but Grief to me . therefore grant me pardon gentle Wife . Life I see con [ s ] umeth , And Death I see presumeth , to change this Life of mine into a new : Yet this my greatest Comfort brings , I liv'd and dy'd in love of Kings ; and so brave Stukely bids the World adieu . Stukely's Life thus ended , Was after Death befriended , and like a Soldier buried gallantly : Where now there stands upon the Grave , A stately Temple built brave , with Golden Turrets piercing to the Sky . Printed by and for T. Norris , and C. Brown , and sold at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 