A The Noble Acts newly found , Of Arthur of the Table Round . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . WHen Arthur first in Court began , and was approved King , By force of Arms great Victories wone , and Conquest home did bring : Then into Brittain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him , which were of the Round Table . And many Jousts and Tournaments , before him there were pressed , Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the rest . But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of arms , all others did excel . When he had rested him a while , to play , and game , and sport , He thought he would approve himself , in some advent'rous sor He armed road in Forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of Adventures great , whereto he gave good ear . Why should I not ? ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither , Thou seem'st , quoth she , a Knight right good , and I will bring thee thither , Where as the mightest Knight does dwell that now is of great fame , Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art , and then what is thy name . My name is Lancelot du Lake , quoth she it likes me then , Here dwells a Knight that never was o're-matcht of any man : Who hath in Prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound , Knights of King Arthurs Court they be , and of the Table round , She brought him to a River then , and also to a Tree , Whereas a Copper Bason hung , his Fellow Shields to see . He struck so hard the Basin broke , when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a Horse before him straight , whereon a Knight was bound . Sir Knight ( then said Sir Lancelot ) bring me that Horseload hither , And lay him down and let him rest , we'l try our force together : For as I understand , thou hast as far as thou art able , Done great despite and and shame unto the Knights of the round Table . If thou art of the Table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy Fellowship , I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by , They put their Spurs unto their Steeds , and each at other fly . They couch their Spears and Horses run , as though they had been thunder And each struck then upon the Shield , wherewith they brake asunder : Their Horses backs brake under that [ e ] m , The Knights they were aston'd ; To void their horses they made haste , to fight upon the ground : They took them to their Shields full fast , their Swords they drew out then With Mighty strokes most eagerly , each one at other run : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their Swords awhile , quoth Tarquin hold thy Hand , And tell to me what I shall ask , say on , quoth Lancelot though , Thou art quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know . And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is the Knight thou hatest so , I pray thee show to me ? His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my Brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now of King Arthurs Table round , King Hands Son of Benwake : And I defy thee do thy worst , would [ , ] would , quoth Tarquin though , One of us two shall end our lives , before that we do go . If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore see thou thyself defend , for now I do thee defy . They hurled then together fast , like two wild Boars so rashing , And with their Swords & Shields they ran , at one another flashing . The ground besprinkled was with blood . Tarquin began to faint , For he had backed and boar his shield , so low he did repen Which soon espy'd Lancelot though , he leapt upon him then , He pull'd him down upon his Knee , and rushed off his helm : And then he struck his Neck in two , and when he had done so , From prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot delivered though . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J [ . ] M. and A . M.A The Noble Acts newly found , Of Arthur of the Table Round . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . WHen Arthur first in Court began , and was approved King , By force of Arms great Victories wone , and Conquest home did bring : Then into Brittain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him , which were of the Round Table . And many Jousts and Tournaments , before him there were pressed , Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the rest . But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of arms , all others did excel . When he had rested him a while , to play , and game , and sport , He thought he would approve himself , in some advent'rous sor He armed road in Forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of Adventures great , whereto he gave good ear . Why should I not ? ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither , Thou seem'st , quoth she , a Knight right good , and I will bring thee thither , Where as the mightest Knight does dwell that now is of great fame , Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art , and then what is thy name . My name is Lancelot du Lake , quoth she it likes me then , Here dwells a Knight that never was o're-matcht of any man : Who hath in Prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound , Knights of King Arthurs Court they be , and of the Table round , She brought him to a River then , and also to a Tree , Whereas a Copper Bason hung , his Fellow Shields to see . He struck so hard the Basin broke , when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a Horse before him straight , whereon a Knight was bound . Sir Knight ( then said Sir Lancelot ) bring me that Horseload hither , And lay him down and let him rest , we'l try our force together : For as I understand , thou hast as far as thou art able , Done great despite and and shame unto the Knights of the round Table . If thou art of the Table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy Fellowship , I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by , They put their Spurs unto their Steeds , and each at other fly . They couch their Spears and Horses run , as though they had been thunder And each struck then upon the Shield , wherewith they brake asunder : Their Horses backs brake under that [ e ] m , The Knights they were aston'd ; To void their horses they made haste , to fight upon the ground : They took them to their Shields full fast , their Swords they drew out then With Mighty strokes most eagerly , each one at other run : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their Swords awhile , quoth Tarquin hold thy Hand , And tell to me what I shall ask , say on , quoth Lancelot though , Thou art quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know . And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is the Knight thou hatest so , I pray thee show to me ? His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my Brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now of King Arthurs Table round , King Hands Son of Benwake : And I defy thee do thy worst , would [ , ] would , quoth Tarquin though , One of us two shall end our lives , before that we do go . If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore see thou thyself defend , for now I do thee defy . They hurled then together fast , like two wild Boars so rashing , And with their Swords & Shields they ran , at one another flashing . The ground besprinkled was with blood . Tarquin began to faint , For he had backed and boar his shield , so low he did repen Which soon espy'd Lancelot though , he leapt upon him then , He pull'd him down upon his Knee , and rushed off his helm : And then he struck his Neck in two , and when he had done so , From prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot delivered though . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J [ . ] M. and A.M. 