[ TO ] HE [ Jolly Pinder ] of Wakefield , [ W ] ITH [ Robin Hood ] Scarlet , and John. [ To and excellent tu ] ne . Licens'd and Enter'd . IN Wakefield there lives a jolly Pinder , in Wakefield all on a green , in Wakefield all on a green ; There is neither Knight nor 'Squire , said the Pinder , nor Baron that is so bold , nor Baron that is so bold , Dare make a trespass to the town of Wakefield , but his pledge goes to the pinfold , etc All this beheard three witty young Men , 'twas Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John , etc With that they espy'd the jolly Pinder , as he sat under a thorn , etc Now turn again , turn again , said the Pinder , for a wrong way you have gone , etc For you have forsaken the King's highway , and made a path over the corn , etc O that were great shame , said jolly Robin , we being three , and thou but one , etc The Pinder leapt back then thirty good foot , 'twas thirty good foot and one , etc He leaned his back fast unto a thorn , and his foot against a stone , etc And there they fought a long summer's day , and a summer's day so long , etc Till that their swords on their broad bucklers were broke close unto their hands , etc Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , and my merry Men every one , etc For this is one of the best Pinders , that ever I tried with sword , etc And wilt thou forsake the Pinder's Craft , and live in the green wood with me ? etc At Michaelmas next my cov'nant comes out , when every Man gathers his fee , etc I'll take my blue blade all in my hand , and plod to the green wood with thee , etc Hast thou either meat or drink , said Robin Hood , for my merry Men and me ? etc , I have both bred and beef , said the Pinder , and good ale of the best , etc And that's meat good enough , said Robin Hood , for such unbidden Guest , etc O wilt thou forsake the Pinder his Craft , and go to the green wood with me ? etc Thou shalt have a livery twice in the year , the one green , the other brown , etc If Michaelmas-day was come and gone , and my Master had paid me my fee , and my Master had paid me my fee , Then would I set as little by him , as my Master does by me , as my Master does by me . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner , and London-bridge . [ TO ] HE [ Jolly Pinder ] of Wakefield , [ W ] ITH [ Robin Hood ] Scarlet , and John. [ To and excellent tu ] ne . Licens'd and Enter'd . IN Wakefield there lives a jolly Pinder , in Wakefield all on a green , in Wakefield all on a green ; There is neither Knight nor 'Squire , said the Pinder , nor Baron that is so bold , nor Baron that is so bold , Dare make a trespass to the town of Wakefield , but his pledge goes to the pinfold , etc All this beheard three witty young Men , 'twas Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John , etc With that they espy'd the jolly Pinder , as he sat under a thorn , etc Now turn again , turn again , said the Pinder , for a wrong way you have gone , etc For you have forsaken the King's highway , and made a path over the corn , etc O that were great shame , said jolly Robin , we being three , and thou but one , etc The Pinder leapt back then thirty good foot , 'twas thirty good foot and one , etc He leaned his back fast unto a thorn , and his foot against a stone , etc And there they fought a long summer's day , and a summer's day so long , etc Till that their swords on their broad bucklers were broke close unto their hands , etc Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , and my merry Men every one , etc For this is one of the best Pinders , that ever I tried with sword , etc And wilt thou forsake the Pinder's Craft , and live in the green wood with me ? etc At Michaelmas next my cov'nant comes out , when every Man gathers his fee , etc I'll take my blue blade all in my hand , and plod to the green wood with thee , etc Hast thou either meat or drink , said Robin Hood , for my merry Men and me ? etc , I have both bred and beef , said the Pinder , and good ale of the best , etc And that's meat good enough , said Robin Hood , for such unbidden Guest , etc O wilt thou forsake the Pinder his Craft , and go to the green wood with me ? etc Thou shalt have a livery twice in the year , the one green , the other brown , etc If Michaelmas-day was come and gone , and my Master had paid me my fee , and my Master had paid me my fee , Then would I set as little by him , as my Master does by me , as my Master does by me . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner , and London-bridge . 