Windsor LADY . To and excellent Northern Tune . IN Windsor famous town did dwell , A maiden lady , did excel , All other maidens in that place , For sparkling eyes & charming face , She was fair , she was kind , Still she boar a virtuous mind . She had her fortune in her hand , Ten thousand pound in cash & land such portion many sweetheart brought But she replied I have no thought , For to wed , I'll tell you why , Men are false , a maid I'll die . But at length to her did come , A brisk young Lad a 'squire's Son , Who vow'd he lov'd her as his life , And woo'd her for to be his wife , But she cry'd stand you by , For a maid I live and die . At her repulse they all gave o'er , I am sure there was half a score ; A Lieutenant to her since came , Who in the wars had many slave , Lady fair , he would cry , Love me , love me or I die . Sir said the lady I do find , You are a murderer of mankind ; To kill it is your business 'tis true , Ne'er let a woman then kill you , Oh! for shame serve your King Let not love in wars be seen . I could Castle storm , or Fort , In milder terms I do you court , 'Tis tender love I do impart ; If you deny you'll break my heart , Ha! Ha! Ha! the lady cry'd , For love ne'er knew a Soldier die Oh dear madam pray say not so , My love is real you shall know , By you madam my heart is slave , There's none but you can cure my pain Ha! Ha! Ha! the lady cry'd , For love i ne'er knew a Soldier die The lieutenant at this did rave , And cried dear madam Im your slave , Then took a Pistol and did say , This shall end my life this day , Welcome death , welcome grave , None but you my life can save , Oh! Sir , 'tis not worth your while , For love of me your life beguile , No keep your gun and go your way , 'Twill serve in the field another day , Ha! Ha! Ha! the lady cried , For love i ne'er knew a Soldier die , Then out of the room she run , And left her lover with his gun , Which he immediately did place , The barrel just against his breast , Then let fly , and bounce it went , The lady scream'd with discontent . Then strait into the room she run , And saw he had his business done ; For he lay bleeding on the floor , And she for help cry'd o'er and o'er . Haste and fly , or he'll die , Bring a surgeon speedily . Then she laid her on the ground , Gently wiping of his wound , And with weeping eyes did say , Heaven save my love this day , If he lives , him I'll have , Or will follow him to the grave . The lieutenant did then reply , Ten thousand death's I'd rather die , Therefore lady weep no more , Since you love , I'm happy sure , For it's you my life can save , And your love is all I crave . Since providence has took such care , Of my dear love his life to spare ; And now the wedding-day is nigh , For the future I will never cry . Ha! would ! would ! maids take care , Lest your lover should despair . In Windsor chapel they were wed , And flowers all the way was spread , A sumptuous dinner too had they , With music and dancing all the day ; And at night in great store , They had pleasure more and more . Printed and Sold in Bow-church-yard , London Windsor LADY . To and excellent Northern Tune . IN Windsor famous town did dwell , A maiden lady , did excel , All other maidens in that place , For sparkling eyes & charming face , She was fair , she was kind , Still she boar a virtuous mind . She had her fortune in her hand , Ten thousand pound in cash & land such portion many sweetheart brought But she replied I have no thought , For to wed , I'll tell you why , Men are false , a maid I'll die . But at length to her did come , A brisk young Lad a 'squire's Son , Who vow'd he lov'd her as his life , And woo'd her for to be his wife , But she cry'd stand you by , For a maid I live and die . At her repulse they all gave o'er , I am sure there was half a score ; A Lieutenant to her since came , Who in the wars had many slave , Lady fair , he would cry , Love me , love me or I die . Sir said the lady I do find , You are a murderer of mankind ; To kill it is your business 'tis true , Ne'er let a woman then kill you , Oh! for shame serve your King Let not love in wars be seen . I could Castle storm , or Fort , In milder terms I do you court , 'Tis tender love I do impart ; If you deny you'll break my heart , Ha! Ha! Ha! the lady cry'd , For love ne'er knew a Soldier die Oh dear madam pray say not so , My love is real you shall know , By you madam my heart is slave , There's none but you can cure my pain Ha! Ha! Ha! the lady cry'd , For love i ne'er knew a Soldier die The lieutenant at this did rave , And cried dear madam Im your slave , Then took a Pistol and did say , This shall end my life this day , Welcome death , welcome grave , None but you my life can save , Oh! Sir , 'tis not worth your while , For love of me your life beguile , No keep your gun and go your way , 'Twill serve in the field another day , Ha! Ha! Ha! the lady cried , For love i ne'er knew a Soldier die , Then out of the room she run , And left her lover with his gun , Which he immediately did place , The barrel just against his breast , Then let fly , and bounce it went , The lady scream'd with discontent . Then strait into the room she run , And saw he had his business done ; For he lay bleeding on the floor , And she for help cry'd o'er and o'er . Haste and fly , or he'll die , Bring a surgeon speedily . Then she laid her on the ground , Gently wiping of his wound , And with weeping eyes did say , Heaven save my love this day , If he lives , him I'll have , Or will follow him to the grave . The lieutenant did then reply , Ten thousand death's I'd rather die , Therefore lady weep no more , Since you love , I'm happy sure , For it's you my life can save , And your love is all I crave . Since providence has took such care , Of my dear love his life to spare ; And now the wedding-day is nigh , For the future I will never cry . Ha! would ! would ! maids take care , Lest your lover should despair . In Windsor chapel they were wed , And flowers all the way was spread , A sumptuous dinner too had they , With music and dancing all the day ; And at night in great store , They had pleasure more and more . Printed and Sold in Bow-church-yard , London 