The Westminster Frolic . Or , A Cuckold is a good men Fellow . A wanton Wife that loved a relishing Bit , In Westminster the same then she did get ; And it is now concluded so together , Her Husband must be fain to wear Bulls-feather . But yet the youngster he did not do well , Ah silly Fool ! that he must kiss and tell ; She may thank herself the business is so bad Play with a man , ne'r trust a telltale lad . Tune of , Heigh boys slap goes she ; Or , Alas poor thing ! IN Westminster there is a Wife , a very noble Dame ; And she does live a merry life with sporting Venus Game : But yet her name I will conceal , though she does backwards fallen ; She does transgress her Marriagebed , and that spoils all For she did cast a wanton eye upon a lively Youth ; And you shall hear it by and by , we tell it for a truth : That with a youngman she did lie , to sport , and backwards fallen , Pox take her Stease , they came too low , and that spoils all . And many a day this Youngman came with her to sport and play ; She was so fir'd with her Gallant , she could not say him nay ; He teu'd her soundly on the bed , she cry'd , Lad have at all , Strike up I say my noble Lad , for that spoils all . She did the Youngman so ensnare , and said her hand was warm , That he would mount to a full Career ; I wish he took no harm : She let him lie at Twick a Twack when she did backwards fallen , The bones in her Stease they did crack , and that spoiled all . When i'me in bed then come my Lad the pleasure is so sweet ; We'l have a dish of butter'd Eggs when we again do me Thou art good metal I am sure , I will be at thy call ; Come on my dear and do not fear , for that spoils all . My bonny Lad never be sad , with thee i'le sport and play ; Ne'r talk of half a Crown a week , i'le please thee every way : Thoust never want while I have a C --- I will be at thy Call , Ne'r think upon tO what will come on 't , for that spoils all . But he had a soft place in his Crown , as I will make appear ; To tell it all about the Town , where he went everywhere , That she in kindness did excel , he had her at his call , But he's a Clown to kiss and tell , so that spoiled all . Then it came unto her husband ear how he had sported with his wife : Now I am a Cuckold I do fear , and must be all my life ; My Neighbour has so fo [ r ] ked me he has had her at his call , He has played too much above her knee , and that spoiled all . Before her face to her disgrace , and her Husband too was there ; He did declare the very case , that she was Market ware : Before their Neighbours w [ h ] ere they went he spoke both some and all ; She made him to eat some Flesh in Lent , and that spoiled all . Then the poor contented silly man he made no farther strife , Though he must wear the Bull-feather he's beholding to his wife ; She has Hornified his head so brave , when she did backwards fallen ; The Tell-Tale Lad was but a Knave , for that spoiled all . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-Corner . The Westminster Frolic . Or , A Cuckold is a good men Fellow . A wanton Wife that loved a relishing Bit , In Westminster the same then she did get ; And it is now concluded so together , Her Husband must be fain to wear Bulls-feather . But yet the youngster he did not do well , Ah silly Fool ! that he must kiss and tell ; She may thank herself the business is so bad Play with a man , ne'r trust a telltale lad . Tune of , Heigh boys slap goes she ; Or , Alas poor thing ! IN Westminster there is a Wife , a very noble Dame ; And she does live a merry life with sporting Venus Game : But yet her name I will conceal , though she does backwards fallen ; She does transgress her Marriagebed , and that spoils all For she did cast a wanton eye upon a lively Youth ; And you shall hear it by and by , we tell it for a truth : That with a youngman she did lie , to sport , and backwards fallen , Pox take her Stease , they came too low , and that spoils all . And many a day this Youngman came with her to sport and play ; She was so fir'd with her Gallant , she could not say him nay ; He teu'd her soundly on the bed , she cry'd , Lad have at all , Strike up I say my noble Lad , for that spoils all . She did the Youngman so ensnare , and said her hand was warm , That he would mount to a full Career ; I wish he took no harm : She let him lie at Twick a Twack when she did backwards fallen , The bones in her Stease they did crack , and that spoiled all . When i'me in bed then come my Lad the pleasure is so sweet ; We'l have a dish of butter'd Eggs when we again do me Thou art good metal I am sure , I will be at thy call ; Come on my dear and do not fear , for that spoils all . My bonny Lad never be sad , with thee i'le sport and play ; Ne'r talk of half a Crown a week , i'le please thee every way : Thoust never want while I have a C --- I will be at thy Call , Ne'r think upon tO what will come on 't , for that spoils all . But he had a soft place in his Crown , as I will make appear ; To tell it all about the Town , where he went everywhere , That she in kindness did excel , he had her at his call , But he's a Clown to kiss and tell , so that spoiled all . Then it came unto her husband ear how he had sported with his wife : Now I am a Cuckold I do fear , and must be all my life ; My Neighbour has so fo [ r ] ked me he has had her at his call , He has played too much above her knee , and that spoiled all . Before her face to her disgrace , and her Husband too was there ; He did declare the very case , that she was Market ware : Before their Neighbours w [ h ] ere they went he spoke both some and all ; She made him to eat some Flesh in Lent , and that spoiled all . Then the poor contented silly man he made no farther strife , Though he must wear the Bull-feather he's beholding to his wife ; She has Hornified his head so brave , when she did backwards fallen ; The Tell-Tale Lad was but a Knave , for that spoiled all . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-Corner . 