A WARNING for all Lewd Livers : By the Example of a Disobedient CHILD , who rioutously wasted and consumed his Father and Mother's Goods , and also his own , among vile Strumpets , and other lewd Livers , and died most miserably on a Dunghill . To the Tune of , Sir Andrew Barton , etc MY bleeding heart with grief and care , Does wish all young Men to beware , That they not such like steps may tread , Nor led the life which I have led : My Father was a Gentleman , As many Gallants witness can ; He had no Son but only I , Which made his gold and silver fly . When as my Father had me sent , To fell his goods , or take up rend , I did consume and waste the same , In drinking or unlawful game . The cards and dice were my delight , I haunted taverns day and night ; Lew'd Woman were my chiefest joys , And my Consorts were Cut-purse-boys . God's holy Word I disobey'd , I car'd not what the Preacher said ; For quaffing cans of ale and beer , Was all the service I would hear . Then acting my ungracious part , I broke my aged Father's heart , When ghastly Death did on him seize , I thought myself in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , But now the shame falls to my lot ; Five hundred pound of good read gold , For wine and beer I quickly sold . Then was I pressed to serve the King , That might my name to honour bring ; A Souldier's life I held it base , And always took it in disgrace . And having thus consum'd my store , I to my Mother went for more ; Who sold and mortgaged her land , And put the money in my hand : And then with tears these words she said , Thou know'st my Son thy Father's dead , No more is left but I and thee , Therefore dear Son be good to me . If that thy love from me should fallen , I have no Friend on earth at all : Therefore good Son to me prove kind , And thou reward in Heaven shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I , Desiring of the Lord on high , A shameful death might be his end , That would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make , Of swearing , when your words you speak , Give ear to that which I will tell , Lewd Livers seldom dyeth well . You disobedient Children all , Draw near and listen to my fallen , Example take , repent in time , Lest that your woes be like to mine . You Father's dear , and Mother's kind , Bear you this Lesson in your mind , Trust not too much a wicked Child , For oft times Men are so beguil'd : When twigs are green you may them ply , But let them grow while they be dry , They will so stiff and stubborn stand , You cannot bend them with your hand . So that I ran a wicked raze , And to amend had not the grace , Sixteen score pound in good read Gold , Into my hand my Mother sold . But in the compass of one year , I spent it all as may appear , And having left no means at all , I unto robbing straight did fallen . Thus did I steel my Mother's rings , Her brass , her pewter , and such things , The very bed whereon she lay , I like a Villain stole away . Whatever I could get or take , I thereof straight did money make ; My flinty heart did feel no grief , To see my Mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor , And beg'd relief from door to door : No Infidel , nor Pagan vild , Could bring to light so bad a Child . At last my Mother lost her breath , As she constrained was by Death ; Who yields relief , when Friends grow scant , And ease to them that are in want . From place to place then was I tossed , By every Man and Woman crossed , No harbour could I get , whereby I might at night in safeguard lie . My dearest Kinsfolks do me chide , My dearest Friends mock and deride , Those that were my Consorts of late , Their love is turned into hate . Those that have feasted many a time , And fed upon that which was mine , Despise at me along the street , As if they should a serpent meet . Both Old and Young , both Great and Small , Both Rich and Poor despise me all , No Friend to take my part have I , But was constrain'd in fields to lie . In this my extreme misery , My grief , and my necessity , No Creature gave for my relief , One piece of bred to ease my grief . But like a poor despised Wretch , His latest gasp that he did fetch , Was on a dunghill in the night , When as no Creature was in sighed . But [ tO ] in the morning he was found , As cold as clay upon the ground ; Thus was he born in shame to die , And end his days in misery . Take warning young Men by this vice , Learn to avoid the cards and dice , Lewd Woman's company forbear , They are the highway unto care . All Parents while your Babes be young , Look to their ways in hand and tongue , Then wickedness will not abound , But grace in Children will be found . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and sold by J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guil-spur-street . A WARNING for all Lewd Livers : By the Example of a Disobedient CHILD , who rioutously wasted and consumed his Father and Mother's Goods , and also his own , among vile Strumpets , and other lewd Livers , and died most miserably on a Dunghill . To the Tune of , Sir Andrew Barton , etc MY bleeding heart with grief and care , Does wish all young Men to beware , That they not such like steps may tread , Nor led the life which I have led : My Father was a Gentleman , As many Gallants witness can ; He had no Son but only I , Which made his gold and silver fly . When as my Father had me sent , To fell his goods , or take up rend , I did consume and waste the same , In drinking or unlawful game . The cards and dice were my delight , I haunted taverns day and night ; Lew'd Woman were my chiefest joys , And my Consorts were Cut-purse-boys . God's holy Word I disobey'd , I car'd not what the Preacher said ; For quaffing cans of ale and beer , Was all the service I would hear . Then acting my ungracious part , I broke my aged Father's heart , When ghastly Death did on him seize , I thought myself in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , But now the shame falls to my lot ; Five hundred pound of good read gold , For wine and beer I quickly sold . Then was I pressed to serve the King , That might my name to honour bring ; A Souldier's life I held it base , And always took it in disgrace . And having thus consum'd my store , I to my Mother went for more ; Who sold and mortgaged her land , And put the money in my hand : And then with tears these words she said , Thou know'st my Son thy Father's dead , No more is left but I and thee , Therefore dear Son be good to me . If that thy love from me should fallen , I have no Friend on earth at all : Therefore good Son to me prove kind , And thou reward in Heaven shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I , Desiring of the Lord on high , A shameful death might be his end , That would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make , Of swearing , when your words you speak , Give ear to that which I will tell , Lewd Livers seldom dyeth well . You disobedient Children all , Draw near and listen to my fallen , Example take , repent in time , Lest that your woes be like to mine . You Father's dear , and Mother's kind , Bear you this Lesson in your mind , Trust not too much a wicked Child , For oft times Men are so beguil'd : When twigs are green you may them ply , But let them grow while they be dry , They will so stiff and stubborn stand , You cannot bend them with your hand . So that I ran a wicked raze , And to amend had not the grace , Sixteen score pound in good read Gold , Into my hand my Mother sold . But in the compass of one year , I spent it all as may appear , And having left no means at all , I unto robbing straight did fallen . Thus did I steel my Mother's rings , Her brass , her pewter , and such things , The very bed whereon she lay , I like a Villain stole away . Whatever I could get or take , I thereof straight did money make ; My flinty heart did feel no grief , To see my Mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor , And beg'd relief from door to door : No Infidel , nor Pagan vild , Could bring to light so bad a Child . At last my Mother lost her breath , As she constrained was by Death ; Who yields relief , when Friends grow scant , And ease to them that are in want . From place to place then was I tossed , By every Man and Woman crossed , No harbour could I get , whereby I might at night in safeguard lie . My dearest Kinsfolks do me chide , My dearest Friends mock and deride , Those that were my Consorts of late , Their love is turned into hate . Those that have feasted many a time , And fed upon that which was mine , Despise at me along the street , As if they should a serpent meet . Both Old and Young , both Great and Small , Both Rich and Poor despise me all , No Friend to take my part have I , But was constrain'd in fields to lie . In this my extreme misery , My grief , and my necessity , No Creature gave for my relief , One piece of bred to ease my grief . But like a poor despised Wretch , His latest gasp that he did fetch , Was on a dunghill in the night , When as no Creature was in sighed . But [ tO ] in the morning he was found , As cold as clay upon the ground ; Thus was he born in shame to die , And end his days in misery . Take warning young Men by this vice , Learn to avoid the cards and dice , Lewd Woman's company forbear , They are the highway unto care . All Parents while your Babes be young , Look to their ways in hand and tongue , Then wickedness will not abound , But grace in Children will be found . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and sold by J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guil-spur-street . 