Love Crowned with Victory . A merry Dialogue betwixt and old rich Country Batchellour , and a young witty London Virgin . With Allowance . To the tune , I'll crown thee my dearest etc Digby's Farewell , Or Packintons Pound . MY Dear canst thou love me , I pray tell me true , For if thou deni'st me isle bid England adieu I'll Sail the wide Ocean abroad will I range The Sea is my portion unless my mind change : And travel abroad as long as I live And never more love to thy sex will I give Then be not so coy but answer my flame Then isle Crown thee my dearest , and isle be thy Swain . I'll make thee a jointure to thy own content That afterwards thou mayest never repent if thou wilt to me prove constant and kind , in requital forever my love thou shalt find , For gold and for silver thou shalt have good store Which will make thee a Lady what wouldst thou have more : Then be not so coy , but answer my flame Then isle crown thee my dearest and isle be thy Swain . Beside thou shalt have to thy hearts desire , Coach-horses and Footmen in noble attire And abroad ride in state , thy pleasure to take So that thou wilt of me a Husband but make Then isle cherish my dearest in bed and at board And thou shalt have all this world can afford : then be not so coy but answer my flame then isle crown thee my dearest and isle be thy Swain . For Rings and jewels thou shalt have of the best in Silk and Satin thou shalt neatly be dressed And a waiting Gentlewoman thou shalt have Which always shall follow thee gallant and brave And a Gentleman Usher with his hat in his hand For to wait upon thee when thou shalt command . then be not so coy , but answer my flame then etc The second part to the same tune . And in the morning when thou dost rise Thou shalt have the best Cordial to clear thy eyes And entwining our arms wee'l embrace each other But the world shall not know , for our joys we will smo-ther Then give me a kiss and seal't with thy love And isle prove true to thee as the Turtle Dove : then be not so coy but answer my flame then isle crown thee etc If thou wilt prove constant I vow to perform , The promise I make thee or else I am forsworn , Answer but my suit , and yield to be mine , Then I will reply with my heart I am thine , So our love will be equal & happy are we , If we join heart and hands we shall ever agree , then be not so coy , but answer my flame . then isle crown thee , etc The Maids witty Answer . I must confess that you promise fare , But to find a true lover it is very rare , For your sex are so given to dissemble and cheat , And draw in young maidens that's loving & weak , If I were but certain your love it were true , I would forsake all the world and my love give to you , but that I will not give , till I further try , till I see your love constant I shall ever deny . The jointer you promise to make over to me , Before that be acted we never shall agree , And if you would have me prove constant and kind , You must make me a jointer pleasing to my mind , You say you have gold and silver good store , Which will make me happy , then isle ask no more , if you can but give me what I shall desire , then isle answer your flames , with equal fire , A gentlewoman you say I shall have , Which shall wait upon me most gallant and brave , All this you have promised I ne'r look to see , Until that I find you prove constant to me , Perform what you promised with all your heart , I promise again that we'l never part , so that you will give me what I shall desire , then isle answer your flames , etc A Gentleman usher with his hat in his hand , You promise shall wait upon me at command , All this is worth nothing if you fail in the main You destroy a poor virgin and your own honour strai [ n ] Though my face it is comely my parts are but small If you like take the person and portion and all , so that you will give me what I shall desire , then your flames I will answer , etc My parents consent I would willingly have , Because they are aged and going to the grave , I would have you to go and ask their good will , That our loves may continue and keep constant still . For if I should marry you , and they not know Their curse would fallen on me with much shame and w [ oe , ] so if you will give me what I shall desire , then isle etc Coach-horses and Footmen in Livery brave A Page holding my train I always shall have So that a husband of you I will make But two words to a bargain before I you take . For your bed & your board I shall not accept Without all your promises be truly kept then when you have given me what I desire isle be sure to answer your flames with fire . Likewise you promise me Jewels and Rings Sattings and silks and many fine things , I hope I shall see them before ime your wife , That afterwards we may live without strife . And if you deceive me i'me quite undone , Yowl curse your misfortune and away I must run . then when you have given me what I desire , I'll not fail to answer your flames with fire . If you will perform what you do say isle be sure to be constant by night and by day But if you prove false , isle never love man But him I must love let me do what I can , For a Virgins heart & her tongue goes together And he that deceives her is sure to thrive never . So now you have answered what I desire I'll answer your flames again with equal fire . LONDON Printed for . P . Brooksby at the Hospital Gate in West-Smithfiel [ worser ] Love Crowned with Victory . A merry Dialogue betwixt and old rich Country Batchellour , and a young witty London Virgin . With Allowance . To the tune , I'll crown thee my dearest etc Digby's Farewell , Or Packintons Pound . MY Dear canst thou love me , I pray tell me true , For if thou deni'st me isle bid England adieu I'll Sail the wide Ocean abroad will I range The Sea is my portion unless my mind change : And travel abroad as long as I live And never more love to thy sex will I give Then be not so coy but answer my flame Then isle Crown thee my dearest , and isle be thy Swain . I'll make thee a jointure to thy own content That afterwards thou mayest never repent if thou wilt to me prove constant and kind , in requital forever my love thou shalt find , For gold and for silver thou shalt have good store Which will make thee a Lady what wouldst thou have more : Then be not so coy , but answer my flame Then isle crown thee my dearest and isle be thy Swain . Beside thou shalt have to thy hearts desire , Coach-horses and Footmen in noble attire And abroad ride in state , thy pleasure to take So that thou wilt of me a Husband but make Then isle cherish my dearest in bed and at board And thou shalt have all this world can afford : then be not so coy but answer my flame then isle crown thee my dearest and isle be thy Swain . For Rings and jewels thou shalt have of the best in Silk and Satin thou shalt neatly be dressed And a waiting Gentlewoman thou shalt have Which always shall follow thee gallant and brave And a Gentleman Usher with his hat in his hand For to wait upon thee when thou shalt command . then be not so coy , but answer my flame then etc The second part to the same tune . And in the morning when thou dost rise Thou shalt have the best Cordial to clear thy eyes And entwining our arms wee'l embrace each other But the world shall not know , for our joys we will smo-ther Then give me a kiss and seal't with thy love And isle prove true to thee as the Turtle Dove : then be not so coy but answer my flame then isle crown thee etc If thou wilt prove constant I vow to perform , The promise I make thee or else I am forsworn , Answer but my suit , and yield to be mine , Then I will reply with my heart I am thine , So our love will be equal & happy are we , If we join heart and hands we shall ever agree , then be not so coy , but answer my flame . then isle crown thee , etc The Maids witty Answer . I must confess that you promise fare , But to find a true lover it is very rare , For your sex are so given to dissemble and cheat , And draw in young maidens that's loving & weak , If I were but certain your love it were true , I would forsake all the world and my love give to you , but that I will not give , till I further try , till I see your love constant I shall ever deny . The jointer you promise to make over to me , Before that be acted we never shall agree , And if you would have me prove constant and kind , You must make me a jointer pleasing to my mind , You say you have gold and silver good store , Which will make me happy , then isle ask no more , if you can but give me what I shall desire , then isle answer your flames , with equal fire , A gentlewoman you say I shall have , Which shall wait upon me most gallant and brave , All this you have promised I ne'r look to see , Until that I find you prove constant to me , Perform what you promised with all your heart , I promise again that we'l never part , so that you will give me what I shall desire , then isle answer your flames , etc A Gentleman usher with his hat in his hand , You promise shall wait upon me at command , All this is worth nothing if you fail in the main You destroy a poor virgin and your own honour strai [ n ] Though my face it is comely my parts are but small If you like take the person and portion and all , so that you will give me what I shall desire , then your flames I will answer , etc My parents consent I would willingly have , Because they are aged and going to the grave , I would have you to go and ask their good will , That our loves may continue and keep constant still . For if I should marry you , and they not know Their curse would fallen on me with much shame and w [ oe , ] so if you will give me what I shall desire , then isle etc Coach-horses and Footmen in Livery brave A Page holding my train I always shall have So that a husband of you I will make But two words to a bargain before I you take . For your bed & your board I shall not accept Without all your promises be truly kept then when you have given me what I desire isle be sure to answer your flames with fire . Likewise you promise me Jewels and Rings Sattings and silks and many fine things , I hope I shall see them before ime your wife , That afterwards we may live without strife . And if you deceive me i'me quite undone , Yowl curse your misfortune and away I must run . then when you have given me what I desire , I'll not fail to answer your flames with fire . If you will perform what you do say isle be sure to be constant by night and by day But if you prove false , isle never love man But him I must love let me do what I can , For a Virgins heart & her tongue goes together And he that deceives her is sure to thrive never . So now you have answered what I desire I'll answer your flames again with equal fire . LONDON Printed for . P . Brooksby at the Hospital Gate in West-Smithfiel [ worser ] 