The West-Country Wooing : OR , The Merry Conceited Couple . In Pleasant Terms he lets her know his mind , And fairly wooes her , for to make her kind : At first she seemed coy to his persuasion , And put him off with many a fly Evasion : But finding at the last his Love wa [ s ] Constant , Her heart she did resign from that same instant . To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no ligh Oh , My pretty little rogue . MY Joy and on'y Dear , come fit down by me , For thou shalt plainly hear I mean to try thee : If thou canst love a Lad brisk , young and lively , I'le make thy heart full glad , thou shalt live finely . Thy pretty rolling eye , and wast so slender , Thy forehead smooth and high , thy lips so tender : Hath so ensnar'd my heart , that I must love thee , Therefore i'le not depart , till pity move thee . Alas kind Sir , she said , what hath possessed you , For to delude a Maid , be not so hasty ; Your flattering words that's past , can no ways move me , For to repent at last , or yield to love you . The Second part , to the same Tune . WE know that youngmen can cog , lie , and flatter , And make vows , now and than , to mend the matter : With such slights cunningly , they do deceive us , Brings us to beggary , and then they leave us . Fear not my dear ( quoth he ) that I dissemble , Or that such false Youngmen I do resemble : I have both house and land , good Gold and riches , And all at thy command , pray mark my speeches . Your house and land perhaps you think may move me , But I fear afterclaps , If I should love you : Therefore my Maidenhead I will make much on't , For ne'r a false youngman shall have a touch on't . O stay my Love , he said , make further trial , Be not so resolute in your denial ; Fear not but you shall find I will content thee , And bravely please thy mind , none shall prevent me . What pleasure can a Maid find in your dealing , When you her kindness think , not worth concealing . Youngmen are apt to blab , what's done in private , And well I understand what 'tis you drive at . My pretty Rogue , he said , do not misdoubt me , Why should you live a Maid , and think I flout you ? In my Love , I promise for to persever , And seal it with a kiss , to last forever . If that you love as much as you profess it , And that your truth is such , as you express it ; Quoth she take hand and heart and use your pleasure , For I will never part from such a treasure . O how it joys my mind , ( quoth he ) my jewel , That thou wilt now be kind , and no more cruel ; Venus that Goddess she will smile to know it , How we in love agree , when we shall show it . So from that happy hour , they were united , And to a pleasant Bower he her invited : Where they with sport and play , kindly embracing , There passed the time away , Lovers Joys trasing . FINIS . Printed for B. Brooksby , at the Golden-hall , in West-smithfield . The West-Country Wooing : OR , The Merry Conceited Couple . In Pleasant Terms he lets her know his mind , And fairly wooes her , for to make her kind : At first she seemed coy to his persuasion , And put him off with many a fly Evasion : But finding at the last his Love wa [ s ] Constant , Her heart she did resign from that same instant . To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no ligh Oh , My pretty little rogue . MY Joy and on'y Dear , come fit down by me , For thou shalt plainly hear I mean to try thee : If thou canst love a Lad brisk , young and lively , I'le make thy heart full glad , thou shalt live finely . Thy pretty rolling eye , and wast so slender , Thy forehead smooth and high , thy lips so tender : Hath so ensnar'd my heart , that I must love thee , Therefore i'le not depart , till pity move thee . Alas kind Sir , she said , what hath possessed you , For to delude a Maid , be not so hasty ; Your flattering words that's past , can no ways move me , For to repent at last , or yield to love you . The Second part , to the same Tune . WE know that youngmen can cog , lie , and flatter , And make vows , now and than , to mend the matter : With such slights cunningly , they do deceive us , Brings us to beggary , and then they leave us . Fear not my dear ( quoth he ) that I dissemble , Or that such false Youngmen I do resemble : I have both house and land , good Gold and riches , And all at thy command , pray mark my speeches . Your house and land perhaps you think may move me , But I fear afterclaps , If I should love you : Therefore my Maidenhead I will make much on't , For ne'r a false youngman shall have a touch on't . O stay my Love , he said , make further trial , Be not so resolute in your denial ; Fear not but you shall find I will content thee , And bravely please thy mind , none shall prevent me . What pleasure can a Maid find in your dealing , When you her kindness think , not worth concealing . Youngmen are apt to blab , what's done in private , And well I understand what 'tis you drive at . My pretty Rogue , he said , do not misdoubt me , Why should you live a Maid , and think I flout you ? In my Love , I promise for to persever , And seal it with a kiss , to last forever . If that you love as much as you profess it , And that your truth is such , as you express it ; Quoth she take hand and heart and use your pleasure , For I will never part from such a treasure . O how it joys my mind , ( quoth he ) my jewel , That thou wilt now be kind , and no more cruel ; Venus that Goddess she will smile to know it , How we in love agree , when we shall show it . So from that happy hour , they were united , And to a pleasant Bower he her invited : Where they with sport and play , kindly embracing , There passed the time away , Lovers Joys trasing . FINIS . Printed for B. Brooksby , at the Golden-hall , in West-smithfield . 