The Welch Wedding Betwixt Ap-Shinkin and Shinny . With all the Mad Merriment which was performed on the Wedding-Day . To the Tune of , The Devonshire Frolic . Or , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. NOw sweet Shinny wilt thou be Wed , And give young Shinkin her Maidenhead ? If her will do it , ne'r mutter , Cots-plutter , will Marry and bring her unto her Bed : Therefore tell her before her does go , If her will Marry her I or no , For her's reso [ l ] ved to g [ e ] tO her a Wife , Sweet Shinny with her her will led her life . Thy fair Puty did wound her heart , And now poor Shinkin must feel the smart , If her is cruel to leave her , deceive her , her then shall be troubled when her part From her Shinny , whom her did adore , Her never loved the like before ; Young Shinny's Loyal , and here is her hand , And let her no longer disputing stand Her will give her a gay Gold Ring , Beside her shall have a better thing , When her is Marry'd then Shonny so bonny , with Sheffery Morgan will Dance and Sing : Hugh the Harper shall plan all the day , And her will be both Gallant and Gay : The thoughts of the Wedding made Shinny to smile , She laughing and simpering , stood a while . Then with Modesty she reply'd , If you obtain me to be your Bride , Invite my Cozens , Welch Marry and Sary , welch Robin and William , with Tom beside : For her Cozens will take it unkind , If not Invited , her soon will find : Then speak young Shinkin , and be not afraid , For if thou art willing , the Match is made . Nay , quoth Shinkin , this shall be done , For her will send to them e'ry one , Her Cozen Taffie , with Hukin and Sukin , and Did Shon-ap-Morgan , with her own Son : All shall come to her Wedding , my Dear , And her will feast them with dainty Cheer : A good Welch Pudding her mean to provide , With big , Goose , and Capon , and Prawn beside . Then they making no more delay , But straight appointing the Wedding-day ; And all her Cozens preparing and wearing their holiday Shackets and best Array : When her Shinkin had Marry'd her Bride , Her brought her home in all State and Pride ; Full threescore Welchmen and women was there , The like of this Wedding you seldom hear . After Dinner , as I am true , Welch Kate , with Winny and Cozen Sue , They were for Dancing , and drinking to Shinkin , nay , Did Shon-ap Morgan and all the Crew : Then the Bottles of Ale they did fly , Loud Acclamations did fill the Sky ; At last the Liquour god into their Crown , And then in their Dancing they tumble down . Being Fuddel'd , they all fell out , And then there was a sad Rebel-rout ; They fell to fighting , both Swearing and Tearing , not one in the Company did stand ou That [ e ] n young Shinkin he slipping aside , From all the Rabble her god her Bride ; But when they miss'd 'um they then did pursue After the young Bride , I and stripped her too . Her Welch friends they were soon her foes , For , as we very well may suppose , What was the reason of Ripping and Stripping , the Bride she had borrow'd her Wedding Close Now when they had god 'um away they did go , And left the Bridegroom and Bride also : But Shon-ap-Morgan on them did attend , And thus the Welch Wedding was at and end . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . The Welch Wedding Betwixt Ap-Shinkin and Shinny . With all the Mad Merriment which was performed on the Wedding-Day . To the Tune of , The Devonshire Frolic . Or , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. NOw sweet Shinny wilt thou be Wed , And give young Shinkin her Maidenhead ? If her will do it , ne'r mutter , Cots-plutter , will Marry and bring her unto her Bed : Therefore tell her before her does go , If her will Marry her I or no , For her's reso [ l ] ved to g [ e ] tO her a Wife , Sweet Shinny with her her will led her life . Thy fair Puty did wound her heart , And now poor Shinkin must feel the smart , If her is cruel to leave her , deceive her , her then shall be troubled when her part From her Shinny , whom her did adore , Her never loved the like before ; Young Shinny's Loyal , and here is her hand , And let her no longer disputing stand Her will give her a gay Gold Ring , Beside her shall have a better thing , When her is Marry'd then Shonny so bonny , with Sheffery Morgan will Dance and Sing : Hugh the Harper shall plan all the day , And her will be both Gallant and Gay : The thoughts of the Wedding made Shinny to smile , She laughing and simpering , stood a while . Then with Modesty she reply'd , If you obtain me to be your Bride , Invite my Cozens , Welch Marry and Sary , welch Robin and William , with Tom beside : For her Cozens will take it unkind , If not Invited , her soon will find : Then speak young Shinkin , and be not afraid , For if thou art willing , the Match is made . Nay , quoth Shinkin , this shall be done , For her will send to them e'ry one , Her Cozen Taffie , with Hukin and Sukin , and Did Shon-ap-Morgan , with her own Son : All shall come to her Wedding , my Dear , And her will feast them with dainty Cheer : A good Welch Pudding her mean to provide , With big , Goose , and Capon , and Prawn beside . Then they making no more delay , But straight appointing the Wedding-day ; And all her Cozens preparing and wearing their holiday Shackets and best Array : When her Shinkin had Marry'd her Bride , Her brought her home in all State and Pride ; Full threescore Welchmen and women was there , The like of this Wedding you seldom hear . After Dinner , as I am true , Welch Kate , with Winny and Cozen Sue , They were for Dancing , and drinking to Shinkin , nay , Did Shon-ap Morgan and all the Crew : Then the Bottles of Ale they did fly , Loud Acclamations did fill the Sky ; At last the Liquour god into their Crown , And then in their Dancing they tumble down . Being Fuddel'd , they all fell out , And then there was a sad Rebel-rout ; They fell to fighting , both Swearing and Tearing , not one in the Company did stand ou That [ e ] n young Shinkin he slipping aside , From all the Rabble her god her Bride ; But when they miss'd 'um they then did pursue After the young Bride , I and stripped her too . Her Welch friends they were soon her foes , For , as we very well may suppose , What was the reason of Ripping and Stripping , the Bride she had borrow'd her Wedding Close Now when they had god 'um away they did go , And left the Bridegroom and Bride also : But Shon-ap-Morgan on them did attend , And thus the Welch Wedding was at and end . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 