The Country men Paradise . See George and Nell that Love full well say kissing is no Vice , The Country and making Hay He calls a PARADICE . To the Tune of Philander . NOw Sols bright shining beams dries up the Watery Flood , Hay Harvest will draw near , it is well understood . Then I with Nell do know full well , some youthful trick must play , And lay her down upon the ground as we are making Hay . And when the Parching heat does force us to give o're , We to the Slades retreat , and there we'l o're and o're Repeat the favours we have shown at several times at play , Which to our selves were only known , When we were making Hay . When we are rested well . we to our work again , I keep close to my Nell , my sighed she'l not refrain : When we to the Lands end do come most prettily we play , Her Waist I clip and kiss her Lip as we are making Hay . ANd at the Evening tide , our days-work we do cock , If we are not espied , then I take up her smock : And what does after follow then I am asham'd to say , But thus we do I tell to you as we do make the Hay . If she does prove with Child , as she perhaps may do , She cries she's then beguil'd , persuades me to be true : Unknown to any of our Friends we married are straightway , And none does know that it was so when we were making Hay . And thus we carry on our Country jests and sport , No dread we think upon , we valve not report ; Report hath long a Liar been , I have herd many say , And now I long till we begin again to make the Hay , Our Life more pleasure yields , and brings to us such sport , More pleasure in the Fields than in a Princes Court ; For all the day long from morn to night , we merrily do play , And thus our hearts we do delight , as we are making Hay . Before the Sun does rise , we Music have at will , The pretty Lark up flies our pleasures to fulfil ; We with our Bag and Bottle too doe Feast us every day , We hear no strife ; this pleasant Life we have in making Hay . Who then does not delight to led a Country life , Our pains it does requite , each man enjoys his wife . Yea , hand in hand to labouring work they go both night and day , And sometime they together play , beside their making Hay . No Citizen I say can be from care more free , Although they go more gay , and finer dressed then we . Such pleasures they but seldom meet , as we have every day , That walk the Meadows brave and sweet , and help to make the Hay . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . The Country men Paradise . See George and Nell that Love full well say kissing is no Vice , The Country and making Hay He calls a PARADICE . To the Tune of Philander . NOw Sols bright shining beams dries up the Watery Flood , Hay Harvest will draw near , it is well understood . Then I with Nell do know full well , some youthful trick must play , And lay her down upon the ground as we are making Hay . And when the Parching heat does force us to give o're , We to the Slades retreat , and there we'l o're and o're Repeat the favours we have shown at several times at play , Which to our selves were only known , When we were making Hay . When we are rested well . we to our work again , I keep close to my Nell , my sighed she'l not refrain : When we to the Lands end do come most prettily we play , Her Waist I clip and kiss her Lip as we are making Hay . ANd at the Evening tide , our days-work we do cock , If we are not espied , then I take up her smock : And what does after follow then I am asham'd to say , But thus we do I tell to you as we do make the Hay . If she does prove with Child , as she perhaps may do , She cries she's then beguil'd , persuades me to be true : Unknown to any of our Friends we married are straightway , And none does know that it was so when we were making Hay . And thus we carry on our Country jests and sport , No dread we think upon , we valve not report ; Report hath long a Liar been , I have herd many say , And now I long till we begin again to make the Hay , Our Life more pleasure yields , and brings to us such sport , More pleasure in the Fields than in a Princes Court ; For all the day long from morn to night , we merrily do play , And thus our hearts we do delight , as we are making Hay . Before the Sun does rise , we Music have at will , The pretty Lark up flies our pleasures to fulfil ; We with our Bag and Bottle too doe Feast us every day , We hear no strife ; this pleasant Life we have in making Hay . Who then does not delight to led a Country life , Our pains it does requite , each man enjoys his wife . Yea , hand in hand to labouring work they go both night and day , And sometime they together play , beside their making Hay . No Citizen I say can be from care more free , Although they go more gay , and finer dressed then we . Such pleasures they but seldom meet , as we have every day , That walk the Meadows brave and sweet , and help to make the Hay . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 