Maids Lamentation , That lives in great distress Her Sweetheart hath forsaken her , Now she lives in weariness , She's almost spoil'd for Cure , And makes such mighty moan That she no longer can endure Herself to lie alone , But wishes for a Man To ease her of her Woe : Her Maidenhead does trouble her , That She's not able for to go . The Tune is , The Lass that comes to Bed to me , Or , Sawney is gone . MY Love is gone alack a day . and he hath left me all a alone , I am ready to make myself away if I be not married I am undone : I have a pain does trouble me never poor Maid was troubled so . It lies a little above my Knee , im'e so tormented I cannot go . He said that he would marry me , and gave me his hand upon the same That I might have my pleasure free and play in Bed with my good Man , But if he will come and lets agree now he has brought me to his Bow , The Pain lies soar above my Knee , i'me so tormented I cannot go . Green sickness is a weary thing for any Maiden to endure . Between my Knees it does so Ring but the help of a Man is present Cure : If a Maid can have it but in time it will ease her of all Grief and Woe , A maggot lies so near my Loin , i'me so tormented , But i'l write to him in a loving way , that I may know either of or on , If my Letter he will not obey I must seek out for another Man , All night I lie and knaw the Sheets . and toss and tumble too and from , And for very anger lie and fret , i'me so tormented . The second Part to the same Tune . FOr I am pained very soar it brings upon me very Strife , Yet I am loath to be a Whore before that I am made a Wife : Yet I could wish some sport to be if my sweetheart will have it so , That I might have ease above my knee , I scarce am able for to go . There's no greater can be known to any Maiden in that kind , When she comes to age to lie alone if no pleasure she can find : For want of Pleasure makes me mad , my sweethearts gone which is my Woe , I will seek out for another Lad , For want of help I cannot go . All Maidens now I pray you mind , you cannot choose but pittb me , I am so tormented in this kind to linger out my days in misery , I must have help or I am undone the story plain , does make it so : I'me at full age ee'n near eighteen , For grief am spoil'd I cannot go , Now all young Maidens that does hear the sad complaint that I do make The Man I love hath little care and now I suffer for his sake : But yet another Man I'll have that he may cure me of my Woo , That hath and instrument so brave The help of him will make me go . And so I bid you all adieu I have no more for to say I wish all young Men to be true unto [ y ] oung Maidens night and day : And let not Maidens come to harm if they do , young men to blame will be , But couple and keep one another warm , To prevent all dangers above the Knee . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . Maids Lamentation , That lives in great distress Her Sweetheart hath forsaken her , Now she lives in weariness , She's almost spoil'd for Cure , And makes such mighty moan That she no longer can endure Herself to lie alone , But wishes for a Man To ease her of her Woe : Her Maidenhead does trouble her , That She's not able for to go . The Tune is , The Lass that comes to Bed to me , Or , Sawney is gone . MY Love is gone alack a day . and he hath left me all a alone , I am ready to make myself away if I be not married I am undone : I have a pain does trouble me never poor Maid was troubled so . It lies a little above my Knee , im'e so tormented I cannot go . He said that he would marry me , and gave me his hand upon the same That I might have my pleasure free and play in Bed with my good Man , But if he will come and lets agree now he has brought me to his Bow , The Pain lies soar above my Knee , i'me so tormented I cannot go . Green sickness is a weary thing for any Maiden to endure . Between my Knees it does so Ring but the help of a Man is present Cure : If a Maid can have it but in time it will ease her of all Grief and Woe , A maggot lies so near my Loin , i'me so tormented , But i'l write to him in a loving way , that I may know either of or on , If my Letter he will not obey I must seek out for another Man , All night I lie and knaw the Sheets . and toss and tumble too and from , And for very anger lie and fret , i'me so tormented . The second Part to the same Tune . FOr I am pained very soar it brings upon me very Strife , Yet I am loath to be a Whore before that I am made a Wife : Yet I could wish some sport to be if my sweetheart will have it so , That I might have ease above my knee , I scarce am able for to go . There's no greater can be known to any Maiden in that kind , When she comes to age to lie alone if no pleasure she can find : For want of Pleasure makes me mad , my sweethearts gone which is my Woe , I will seek out for another Lad , For want of help I cannot go . All Maidens now I pray you mind , you cannot choose but pittb me , I am so tormented in this kind to linger out my days in misery , I must have help or I am undone the story plain , does make it so : I'me at full age ee'n near eighteen , For grief am spoil'd I cannot go , Now all young Maidens that does hear the sad complaint that I do make The Man I love hath little care and now I suffer for his sake : But yet another Man I'll have that he may cure me of my Woo , That hath and instrument so brave The help of him will make me go . And so I bid you all adieu I have no more for to say I wish all young Men to be true unto [ y ] oung Maidens night and day : And let not Maidens come to harm if they do , young men to blame will be , But couple and keep one another warm , To prevent all dangers above the Knee . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 