: 910 The Young men Joys Completed . OR , The Coy DAMSEL Conquered by his pure Love and Loyalty . She first deny'd to be his Bride , lest he should prove unjust ; But when she knew his Love was true she set his Heart at rest . To the Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed . R.P. Man. NOw to my true Lover Betty , I'le pay my Loyal Respects , There is no Creature more pretty , not among all thy whole Sex : Let me obtain but thy favour , then I desire no more ; Love I will serve thee forever , and will thy Person adore . Maid . Young Men are given to flatter , innocent Maids to betray , Never intend no such matter , who can believe what you say ? When you take pleasure to grieve us pity your Hearts will not move , But most unworthily leave us , when we have granted you love . Man. Dearest put this to the trial , a solemn promise I give , That I am faithful and Loyal , and will be so while I live : Therefore my Dear be not cruel , but grant me what I request , Love's and unquenchable Fuel , the which does torture my Breast . Maid . Truly I much do admire that your love should be so hight , Were I to grant your desire Sir , it would soon be forgo Young-Men their passion can smother , when we the blessing allow , They are for Courting another , never regarding their vow . Man. There is no Creature above thee , shall be admir'd by me , I so entirely love thee , that I can never be free ; This is no fabulous story , I will thy Servant remain ; Evermore found forth thy glory , do not triumph in disdain . Maid . I have known many a pretender , vow'd that they'd love them as life , Saying , if they would surrender , that they should then be their Wife : Yet at the last they have left them , making their sorrowful moan , And of all comforts bereft them ; this I have oftentimes known . Man. Why wilt thou torture and grieve me , more than i'm able to bear ? O that thou wilt but reprieve me , why shouldst thou let me despair ? Surely might I but enjoy thee , my drooping spirits would cheer , Nothing should ever annoy thee , for I would tender my dear . Though at the first she did lower , now she has quite left it o're , As having not so much power for to deny him once more : Thus the young Damsel consented , seeming at first to be coy , Then he no longer lamented , but did embrace her with joy . Saying , I'le not be ungrateful , to render evil for good , No , I was ne're so deceitful , Heavens forbid that I shou'd ; Thee I did always admire , Love , I was never in jest , Seeing thou grant'st my desire , now my poor Heart is at rest . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking Glass on London-Bridge . : 910 The Young men Joys Completed . OR , The Coy DAMSEL Conquered by his pure Love and Loyalty . She first deny'd to be his Bride , lest he should prove unjust ; But when she knew his Love was true she set his Heart at rest . To the Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed . R.P. Man. NOw to my true Lover Betty , I'le pay my Loyal Respects , There is no Creature more pretty , not among all thy whole Sex : Let me obtain but thy favour , then I desire no more ; Love I will serve thee forever , and will thy Person adore . Maid . Young Men are given to flatter , innocent Maids to betray , Never intend no such matter , who can believe what you say ? When you take pleasure to grieve us pity your Hearts will not move , But most unworthily leave us , when we have granted you love . Man. Dearest put this to the trial , a solemn promise I give , That I am faithful and Loyal , and will be so while I live : Therefore my Dear be not cruel , but grant me what I request , Love's and unquenchable Fuel , the which does torture my Breast . Maid . Truly I much do admire that your love should be so hight , Were I to grant your desire Sir , it would soon be forgo Young-Men their passion can smother , when we the blessing allow , They are for Courting another , never regarding their vow . Man. There is no Creature above thee , shall be admir'd by me , I so entirely love thee , that I can never be free ; This is no fabulous story , I will thy Servant remain ; Evermore found forth thy glory , do not triumph in disdain . Maid . I have known many a pretender , vow'd that they'd love them as life , Saying , if they would surrender , that they should then be their Wife : Yet at the last they have left them , making their sorrowful moan , And of all comforts bereft them ; this I have oftentimes known . Man. Why wilt thou torture and grieve me , more than i'm able to bear ? O that thou wilt but reprieve me , why shouldst thou let me despair ? Surely might I but enjoy thee , my drooping spirits would cheer , Nothing should ever annoy thee , for I would tender my dear . Though at the first she did lower , now she has quite left it o're , As having not so much power for to deny him once more : Thus the young Damsel consented , seeming at first to be coy , Then he no longer lamented , but did embrace her with joy . Saying , I'le not be ungrateful , to render evil for good , No , I was ne're so deceitful , Heavens forbid that I shou'd ; Thee I did always admire , Love , I was never in jest , Seeing thou grant'st my desire , now my poor Heart is at rest . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking Glass on London-Bridge . 