A friendly Caveat To all true Christians , Showing them the true way to Heaven . To the Tune of , the Ladies fallen . NOw that the day star does appear to God devoutly let us call That in the deeds of day light clear he'd keep us from misfortunes all . Let him temper our tattling tongue and bridle so our will , Lest horror vile brake us among , and strife that sounds full ill . Let all the secrets of our hearts be clean from filthiness , Let slothful sluggishness depart from us that study do profess . Let mean diet of drink and meat beatrice down the pride of flesh , Lest raging in that filthy heat it lose of youth the flowers fresh Take not in vain Gods holy name , but use it with reverence , For why the Lord all such do blame as here commit offence . Remember that thou holy keep the day of Rest as God does will , Sir days thou shalt apply thy work but rest the seventh day still . For in six days the Lord did frame the Heaven , the Earth , the Creatures , The seventh he ceased and blessed the lame as time for us on him to call , All these precepts the Lord did write in the first table made of stone And left for us both night and day , his ways to think upon . THe second table follows then wherein the Lord instructeth us How to behave ourselves always and the same is written thus . Unto thy Parents honour give as God commands thee . That thou long days and good may'st live in Heaven thy place shall be : Murder no man by word nor deed with Sword or other thing Do nought from whence hate may proceed , for murder out of heat does spring , Avoid all foul adultery and all that their belong , All filthy thoughts and lustest of eye , all unchaste talk of tongue . Take not by fraud nor yet by stealth the things that others possess , For so to take what is not thine it 'tis great wickedness Against no man false witness be but spoke the truth always , For God thy secret thoughts do see and will judge thee at the last day . Thou shalt not in thy heart desire to have thy Neighbours wife , His house nor Land do not require nor between them breed no strife . Be not desirous to reserve his ox , his horse , or beast That he is not willing to leave , or what he does possessed . In vain take not the name of God , swear not by he nor she , The house with plagues is threatened where oaths much used be . Think on the poor in their distress , and God will send thee store , The widow and the fatherless see you feed at your door . Regard the cries of Englands wrong , turn not thy face away , Bear not a proud and lofty mind for that will thee decay . These be the laws that God did give to Jacobs seed in wilderness , And let is follow them always we may his land possess . But such as will his laws neglect and walk after fleshly desire , The Lord at last he will them put into eternal fire . From which the Lord deliver us and all that trust in thee . That when we do depart this world in heaven our place may be . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . A friendly Caveat To all true Christians , Showing them the true way to Heaven . To the Tune of , the Ladies fallen . NOw that the day star does appear to God devoutly let us call That in the deeds of day light clear he'd keep us from misfortunes all . Let him temper our tattling tongue and bridle so our will , Lest horror vile brake us among , and strife that sounds full ill . Let all the secrets of our hearts be clean from filthiness , Let slothful sluggishness depart from us that study do profess . Let mean diet of drink and meat beatrice down the pride of flesh , Lest raging in that filthy heat it lose of youth the flowers fresh Take not in vain Gods holy name , but use it with reverence , For why the Lord all such do blame as here commit offence . Remember that thou holy keep the day of Rest as God does will , Sir days thou shalt apply thy work but rest the seventh day still . For in six days the Lord did frame the Heaven , the Earth , the Creatures , The seventh he ceased and blessed the lame as time for us on him to call , All these precepts the Lord did write in the first table made of stone And left for us both night and day , his ways to think upon . THe second table follows then wherein the Lord instructeth us How to behave ourselves always and the same is written thus . Unto thy Parents honour give as God commands thee . That thou long days and good may'st live in Heaven thy place shall be : Murder no man by word nor deed with Sword or other thing Do nought from whence hate may proceed , for murder out of heat does spring , Avoid all foul adultery and all that their belong , All filthy thoughts and lustest of eye , all unchaste talk of tongue . Take not by fraud nor yet by stealth the things that others possess , For so to take what is not thine it 'tis great wickedness Against no man false witness be but spoke the truth always , For God thy secret thoughts do see and will judge thee at the last day . Thou shalt not in thy heart desire to have thy Neighbours wife , His house nor Land do not require nor between them breed no strife . Be not desirous to reserve his ox , his horse , or beast That he is not willing to leave , or what he does possessed . In vain take not the name of God , swear not by he nor she , The house with plagues is threatened where oaths much used be . Think on the poor in their distress , and God will send thee store , The widow and the fatherless see you feed at your door . Regard the cries of Englands wrong , turn not thy face away , Bear not a proud and lofty mind for that will thee decay . These be the laws that God did give to Jacobs seed in wilderness , And let is follow them always we may his land possess . But such as will his laws neglect and walk after fleshly desire , The Lord at last he will them put into eternal fire . From which the Lord deliver us and all that trust in thee . That when we do depart this world in heaven our place may be . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 