Monmouth Routed . Together , with his Promise and Resolution to Return again , a little before he left the Land. To the Tune of , The Soldiers Departure . NOw the fatal fight is over , Valiant Monmouth must away ; While his Enemies did follow , his sweet Person to betray , If we had but Ammunition , we had surely wone the field , But we were in a weak condition , and was forc'd at last to yield . Some says Monmouth he was taken in a Field a picking Peese ; Some says in a Ditch a sleeping , there were such reports as these ; Raised merely to degrade him , of his Royal Dignity ; But let those that did upbraid him , Rush for such like Villainy . Some the more to blast his Glory , as the naked truth I say , Straightway frame another Story , saying in a Cock of Hay He through fear was forc'd to built in , 'till they did his Honour trace ; But his famous Warlike Gelding escap'd with his most Royal Grace . Some has call'd brave Monmouth Coward but they were his Enemies ; When a Souldier's over-power'd , they can this and more devise ; But their words I never heeded , tho' they knit their brows , and frown ; His stout Valour far exceeded those which strove to run him down . Now when we were clearly Routed , I ran to a pleasant Grove , Where some of our Men were Scouted , with that Soldier whom we love ; Who declar'd to give them Battle , when he could his strength renew , Drums and Canons they should Rattle , for to give his Foes their due . Now we must away to Holland , where we shall be safe I'm sure ; And my Soldiers that will follow , they with me shall be secure : They shall surely lack for nothing , while in Holland we remain , And we'll be in better Order , when we do return again . Now they Draw and Hang my Soldiers , which does grieve my heart full soar ; All the bloody Books of Martyrs , never shew'd the like before ? Nay , they cut them into Quarters , and their Hearts and Bowels burn'd , Likewise boyl'd their Limbs in Cauldrons I at this in tears have mourn'd . Sure the very Turk or Tartar , could not act more Cruelty , Yet like Lambs they took their slaughter , when they were condemn'd to die : Tho' it fill'd the world with wonder , what they did intend or mean ; Mother's hearts did break in sunder , to behold this bloody Scene . How their Actions does alarm me , to behold their fatal Bane , Well , I'le have another Army , for to Fight my Foes again : Warlike Canons they shall Rattle , like a Hero of Renown , I myself will Front the Battle , for to run the Roman down . I will find a proper Season for to pull down Popery , Since it is no more than Reason , that my proudest Foes shall see : Tho' at present I may linger , foes shall see my Armour shine , Nay , and tremble at my Anger when I accomplish my Design . He no sooner this had spoken , but they straightways him secur'd , Christians Hearts was almost broken , to behold what he endur'd ; Bloody was his Execution , from the hand of Cruelty , 'Twas the Papists Resolution , he should fallen most fatally . Printed for B.P. in the Year 1688. Monmouth Routed . Together , with his Promise and Resolution to Return again , a little before he left the Land. To the Tune of , The Soldiers Departure . NOw the fatal fight is over , Valiant Monmouth must away ; While his Enemies did follow , his sweet Person to betray , If we had but Ammunition , we had surely wone the field , But we were in a weak condition , and was forc'd at last to yield . Some says Monmouth he was taken in a Field a picking Peese ; Some says in a Ditch a sleeping , there were such reports as these ; Raised merely to degrade him , of his Royal Dignity ; But let those that did upbraid him , Rush for such like Villainy . Some the more to blast his Glory , as the naked truth I say , Straightway frame another Story , saying in a Cock of Hay He through fear was forc'd to built in , 'till they did his Honour trace ; But his famous Warlike Gelding escap'd with his most Royal Grace . Some has call'd brave Monmouth Coward but they were his Enemies ; When a Souldier's over-power'd , they can this and more devise ; But their words I never heeded , tho' they knit their brows , and frown ; His stout Valour far exceeded those which strove to run him down . Now when we were clearly Routed , I ran to a pleasant Grove , Where some of our Men were Scouted , with that Soldier whom we love ; Who declar'd to give them Battle , when he could his strength renew , Drums and Canons they should Rattle , for to give his Foes their due . Now we must away to Holland , where we shall be safe I'm sure ; And my Soldiers that will follow , they with me shall be secure : They shall surely lack for nothing , while in Holland we remain , And we'll be in better Order , when we do return again . Now they Draw and Hang my Soldiers , which does grieve my heart full soar ; All the bloody Books of Martyrs , never shew'd the like before ? Nay , they cut them into Quarters , and their Hearts and Bowels burn'd , Likewise boyl'd their Limbs in Cauldrons I at this in tears have mourn'd . Sure the very Turk or Tartar , could not act more Cruelty , Yet like Lambs they took their slaughter , when they were condemn'd to die : Tho' it fill'd the world with wonder , what they did intend or mean ; Mother's hearts did break in sunder , to behold this bloody Scene . How their Actions does alarm me , to behold their fatal Bane , Well , I'le have another Army , for to Fight my Foes again : Warlike Canons they shall Rattle , like a Hero of Renown , I myself will Front the Battle , for to run the Roman down . I will find a proper Season for to pull down Popery , Since it is no more than Reason , that my proudest Foes shall see : Tho' at present I may linger , foes shall see my Armour shine , Nay , and tremble at my Anger when I accomplish my Design . He no sooner this had spoken , but they straightways him secur'd , Christians Hearts was almost broken , to behold what he endur'd ; Bloody was his Execution , from the hand of Cruelty , 'Twas the Papists Resolution , he should fallen most fatally . Printed for B.P. in the Year 1688. 