: 911 True Blue the Plowman , Or , A Character of several Callings which he could not freely fancy , when he found their grand Deceit . He never yet would change his Note , He'd rather be a slave . Nay , wear a poor and threadbare Coat . than counted as a Knave . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. NOw Trading is dead I resolve to contrive , And study some calling in order to thrive , But I will be just in whatever I do , My Name I must tell you is honest True Blue : Though Fortune does oftentimes smile on a Knave , By their unjust dealings they do get and save , But honest Plain-dealing does live like a slave , While Ranting brave Hectors goes gallant & brave . At first I considered what Trade I might be , To live with Plain-Dealing without Knavery , I would be a Brewer at first I did think , And then to be sure I shall never want drink : But straightways I thought of the Brewers old fault Who put in the Water and left out the Malt , If I should do so and make pitiful Beer , I should have the Curse of the Tinkers I fear . As I was a walking along very sad , I met a fine Hostess that wanted a Lad , Her words were so wiinning I could do no less , But go along with her to tend on the Guess , She said , when you wait on a jolly boon crew , Each Pot as you draw , then be sure you score two , I told her false-dealing now never would do , 'Twas better be ragged and torn and true . If this be your dealings I never will stay , Thought I then I'le pack up my Awls and away , I finding by this how the current did run , Poor men by those Alewives are often undone , No wonder it is now that they are so great , To flourish in Silks at so gallant a rate , 'Tis folly that makes men to fell their Estate , While Ale wives can flourish & drink in their plate . Then home to my Father I went again , And of my hard fortune I did complain , He told me no trouble nor cost he'd spare , Of me he would take a particular care : I would have a calling without all deceit , But with such a one , I as yet could not meet , My Father was willing my joys to complete , And now of a Taylor I mean for to treat . I went upon liking a Taylor to be , And now I will tell you a passage I see , One brought in my Master some Cloth for a Cloak , And he at his Cabbaging had a good stroke : For taking his Shiers he whipped off and Ell , And straight he condemn'd it , and sent it to Hell , Down under his Shopboard , which when I did see , Thought I then I'le ne'r be Prentice to thee . A lusty brave Miller came up to the Town , And I as a Prentice with him must go down , Thought I with and honest man now I am blessed , But soon I did find him as bad as the res For if you'l believe me , I think in my Soul , He dad a great Dish was as big as a Bowl , And there was old taking and taking of Toul , Thus he would be fishing against all control . Beside he was counted a slippery blade , And fain would be toying with every Maid ; There was a young Lass , and her name it was Kate , With whom he would fain have been playing the mate : One day as she came with her Grist to the Mill , My master the Miller was tempting her still , The Maiden with courage catch'd hold of his Ham , And tumbled him headlong into the Mill-Dam . It happened to be the lower-side of the Mill , But yet he lay crying and calling out still : I could not tell well what the matter might be , And therefore to him I did run hastily . But when in the River I did him find , Thought I in my Heart thou art serv'd in thy kind , And thus by the Maiden the Miller was fool'd , For then in the River his Courage was cool'd . Thought I , I will ne'r be a slave to this Elf , For fear he should make me as bad as himself , With some honest Farmer i'le get me a place , Where I may live happy and free from disgrace : And thus I did leave the old Miller i'le vow , Then taking myself to the Harrow and Blow , 'Tis free from deceiving , all Men will allow , I labour and live by the sweat of my brow . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . : 911 True Blue the Plowman , Or , A Character of several Callings which he could not freely fancy , when he found their grand Deceit . He never yet would change his Note , He'd rather be a slave . Nay , wear a poor and threadbare Coat . than counted as a Knave . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. NOw Trading is dead I resolve to contrive , And study some calling in order to thrive , But I will be just in whatever I do , My Name I must tell you is honest True Blue : Though Fortune does oftentimes smile on a Knave , By their unjust dealings they do get and save , But honest Plain-dealing does live like a slave , While Ranting brave Hectors goes gallant & brave . At first I considered what Trade I might be , To live with Plain-Dealing without Knavery , I would be a Brewer at first I did think , And then to be sure I shall never want drink : But straightways I thought of the Brewers old fault Who put in the Water and left out the Malt , If I should do so and make pitiful Beer , I should have the Curse of the Tinkers I fear . As I was a walking along very sad , I met a fine Hostess that wanted a Lad , Her words were so wiinning I could do no less , But go along with her to tend on the Guess , She said , when you wait on a jolly boon crew , Each Pot as you draw , then be sure you score two , I told her false-dealing now never would do , 'Twas better be ragged and torn and true . If this be your dealings I never will stay , Thought I then I'le pack up my Awls and away , I finding by this how the current did run , Poor men by those Alewives are often undone , No wonder it is now that they are so great , To flourish in Silks at so gallant a rate , 'Tis folly that makes men to fell their Estate , While Ale wives can flourish & drink in their plate . Then home to my Father I went again , And of my hard fortune I did complain , He told me no trouble nor cost he'd spare , Of me he would take a particular care : I would have a calling without all deceit , But with such a one , I as yet could not meet , My Father was willing my joys to complete , And now of a Taylor I mean for to treat . I went upon liking a Taylor to be , And now I will tell you a passage I see , One brought in my Master some Cloth for a Cloak , And he at his Cabbaging had a good stroke : For taking his Shiers he whipped off and Ell , And straight he condemn'd it , and sent it to Hell , Down under his Shopboard , which when I did see , Thought I then I'le ne'r be Prentice to thee . A lusty brave Miller came up to the Town , And I as a Prentice with him must go down , Thought I with and honest man now I am blessed , But soon I did find him as bad as the res For if you'l believe me , I think in my Soul , He dad a great Dish was as big as a Bowl , And there was old taking and taking of Toul , Thus he would be fishing against all control . Beside he was counted a slippery blade , And fain would be toying with every Maid ; There was a young Lass , and her name it was Kate , With whom he would fain have been playing the mate : One day as she came with her Grist to the Mill , My master the Miller was tempting her still , The Maiden with courage catch'd hold of his Ham , And tumbled him headlong into the Mill-Dam . It happened to be the lower-side of the Mill , But yet he lay crying and calling out still : I could not tell well what the matter might be , And therefore to him I did run hastily . But when in the River I did him find , Thought I in my Heart thou art serv'd in thy kind , And thus by the Maiden the Miller was fool'd , For then in the River his Courage was cool'd . Thought I , I will ne'r be a slave to this Elf , For fear he should make me as bad as himself , With some honest Farmer i'le get me a place , Where I may live happy and free from disgrace : And thus I did leave the old Miller i'le vow , Then taking myself to the Harrow and Blow , 'Tis free from deceiving , all Men will allow , I labour and live by the sweat of my brow . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 