( 1 ) The Common Cries of London Town , Some go up street , some go down . With Turners Dish of Stuff , or a Gallymausery . To the Tune of , Watton Towns End. MY Master's all attend you , if mirth you love to hear , And I will tell you what they cry in London all the year . I'll please you if I can , I will not be too long , I pray you all attend awhile , and listen to my song . The fishwife first begins , nigh Muscles lily white , Herrings , Sprats , or Place , or Cockles for delight . Nye welflet Oysters , then she does change her note , She had need to have her tongue be greas'd for she rattles in the throat . For why they are but Kentish to tell you out of doubt , Her measure is too little go beatrice the bottom ou Half a peck for two pence , I doubt it is a bodge , Thus all the City over the people they do dodge . The wench that cries the Kitchen stuff I marvel what she ail , She sings her note so merry , but she hath a draggle tail : And empty Car came running and hit her on the bum , Down she threw her greasy tub , and away straight she did run : But she did give her blessing to some , but not to all , To bear a load to Tyburne : and there to let it fallen . The Miller and his golden thumb and his dirty neck , If that he grind but two bushels , he must needs steal a peck . The Weaver and the Taylor cozens they be sure , They cannot work but they must steal to keep their hands in ure . For it is a common Proverb throughout all the town , The Taylor he must cut three sleeves to every woman's Gown . Mark but the Waterman attending for his fare , Of hight and cold , of wet and dry he always takes his share , He carrieth bonny Lasses over to the plays , And here and there he gets a bit , and that his stomach stays . There was a singing boy did ride to Rumford ; When I go to my close stool , I will put him in a comfort But what I leave behind shall be no private gain ; But all is one , when I am gone , let him take it for his pain . Old shoes for new brooms the broomman he does sing , For hats or caps or buskin's , or any old pouch ring . Buy a Mat a bed-Mat , a Hassock or a Pesse , A cover for a close stool a bigger or a less . Ripe Cherry ripe the Costermongers cries , Pippins fine or Pears another after hies . With basket on his head his living to advance , And in his purse a pair of Dice , for to play at Munchance . Hight pippin pies to fell unto my friends , Or pudding pies in pans , well stuffed with candles ends . Will you buy any Milk , I herd a wench that cries , With a pale of fresh Cheese and cream , another after hies . O the wench went neatly , me thought it did me good , To see her cherry cheeks so dimpled over with blood ; Her waistcoat washed white as any lily flower , Would I had time to talk with her the space of half and hour . Buy blaok , says the blacking man the best that ere was seen ; This good for poor men Citizens , to make their shoes to shine . O this a rare commodity , it must not be forgotten ; It will make them to glister gallantly and quickly make them rot . The world is full of threadbare poets that live upon their pen ; But they will write too eloquent , they are such witty men . But the Tinker with his budget the beggar with his wallet , And Turner's turned a gallant man at making of a Ballet . The Second Part. To the same Tune . THat's the fat fool of the Curtin , and the lean fool of the Bull : Since Shanke did leave to sing his rhymes , he is counted but a gull . The Players on the Banckeside , the round Globe and the Swan , Will teach you idle tricks of love : but the Bull will play the man . But what do I stand tattling of such idle toys ? I had better go to Smith-field to play among the boys . But you cheating and deceiving lads , with your base artillery , I would wish you shun Newgate , and withal the Pillory . And some there be in patched gowns , I know not what they be , That pinch the Countrymen with nimming of a fee : For where they get a booty they'le make him pay so dear , They'le entertain more in a day , then he shall in a year . Which makes them trim up houses made of brick and stone : And poor men go a begging , when house and land is gone . Some there be with both hands will swear they will not dally , Till they have turn'd all upside down as many use to sally . You Pedlars give good measure , when as your wares you fell , tho' your yard be short , your thum will slip , your tricks I know full well . And you that fell your wares by weight and live upon the trade , Some beams be false , some waits too ligh such tricks there have been played . But small Coals , or great Coals , I have them on my back , The goose lies in the bottom , you may hear the Duck cry quack , Thus grim the black Collier , whose living is so lose , As he does walk the commons over , sometime he steals a Goose . Thou Usurer , with thy money bags that livest so at ease By gaping after gold , thou dost thy mighty God displease , And for thy greedy usury , and thy great extortion , Except thou dost repent thy sins , hellfire will be thy portion . For first I came to Houns-ditch then round about I crept , Where cruelty was crowned chief , and pity fast asleep : Where Usury gets profit , and brokers bear the bell . O fie upon this deadly since , it sinks the soul to hell . The man that sweeps the chimneys with the bush of thorns , And on his neck a truss of poles tipped all with horns : With care he is not cumbered , he lives not in dread ; For though he wear them on his pole some wear them on their head . The Landlord with his racking rends turn poor men out of door , Their children go a begging , where they have spent their store . I hope none is offended with that which is endited ; If any be , let him go home , and take a pen and write it . Buy a trap a Mouse trap , a torment for the fleas : The Hangman works but half that day he lives too much at ease . Come let us leave this boys play , and idle prittle prat , And let us go to nine holes , to spurn-point or to cat . O you nimble fingered lads that live upon your wits , Take heed of Tyburn Ague , for they be dangerous fits : For many a proper man for to supply his lack , Loath leap a leap at Tyburn , which makes his neck to crack . And to him that writ this song I give this simple lo Let everyone be ready to give him half a pot . And thus I do conclude , wishing both health and peace To those that are laid in their bed , and cannot sleep for fleas . FINIS . W. Turner London , Printed for F.C. T.V. and W.G. 1662. ( 1 ) The Common Cries of London Town , Some go up street , some go down . With Turners Dish of Stuff , or a Gallymausery . To the Tune of , Watton Towns End. MY Master's all attend you , if mirth you love to hear , And I will tell you what they cry in London all the year . I'll please you if I can , I will not be too long , I pray you all attend awhile , and listen to my song . The fishwife first begins , nigh Muscles lily white , Herrings , Sprats , or Place , or Cockles for delight . Nye welflet Oysters , then she does change her note , She had need to have her tongue be greas'd for she rattles in the throat . For why they are but Kentish to tell you out of doubt , Her measure is too little go beatrice the bottom ou Half a peck for two pence , I doubt it is a bodge , Thus all the City over the people they do dodge . The wench that cries the Kitchen stuff I marvel what she ail , She sings her note so merry , but she hath a draggle tail : And empty Car came running and hit her on the bum , Down she threw her greasy tub , and away straight she did run : But she did give her blessing to some , but not to all , To bear a load to Tyburne : and there to let it fallen . The Miller and his golden thumb and his dirty neck , If that he grind but two bushels , he must needs steal a peck . The Weaver and the Taylor cozens they be sure , They cannot work but they must steal to keep their hands in ure . For it is a common Proverb throughout all the town , The Taylor he must cut three sleeves to every woman's Gown . Mark but the Waterman attending for his fare , Of hight and cold , of wet and dry he always takes his share , He carrieth bonny Lasses over to the plays , And here and there he gets a bit , and that his stomach stays . There was a singing boy did ride to Rumford ; When I go to my close stool , I will put him in a comfort But what I leave behind shall be no private gain ; But all is one , when I am gone , let him take it for his pain . Old shoes for new brooms the broomman he does sing , For hats or caps or buskin's , or any old pouch ring . Buy a Mat a bed-Mat , a Hassock or a Pesse , A cover for a close stool a bigger or a less . Ripe Cherry ripe the Costermongers cries , Pippins fine or Pears another after hies . With basket on his head his living to advance , And in his purse a pair of Dice , for to play at Munchance . Hight pippin pies to fell unto my friends , Or pudding pies in pans , well stuffed with candles ends . Will you buy any Milk , I herd a wench that cries , With a pale of fresh Cheese and cream , another after hies . O the wench went neatly , me thought it did me good , To see her cherry cheeks so dimpled over with blood ; Her waistcoat washed white as any lily flower , Would I had time to talk with her the space of half and hour . Buy blaok , says the blacking man the best that ere was seen ; This good for poor men Citizens , to make their shoes to shine . O this a rare commodity , it must not be forgotten ; It will make them to glister gallantly and quickly make them rot . The world is full of threadbare poets that live upon their pen ; But they will write too eloquent , they are such witty men . But the Tinker with his budget the beggar with his wallet , And Turner's turned a gallant man at making of a Ballet . The Second Part. To the same Tune . THat's the fat fool of the Curtin , and the lean fool of the Bull : Since Shanke did leave to sing his rhymes , he is counted but a gull . The Players on the Banckeside , the round Globe and the Swan , Will teach you idle tricks of love : but the Bull will play the man . But what do I stand tattling of such idle toys ? I had better go to Smith-field to play among the boys . But you cheating and deceiving lads , with your base artillery , I would wish you shun Newgate , and withal the Pillory . And some there be in patched gowns , I know not what they be , That pinch the Countrymen with nimming of a fee : For where they get a booty they'le make him pay so dear , They'le entertain more in a day , then he shall in a year . Which makes them trim up houses made of brick and stone : And poor men go a begging , when house and land is gone . Some there be with both hands will swear they will not dally , Till they have turn'd all upside down as many use to sally . You Pedlars give good measure , when as your wares you fell , tho' your yard be short , your thum will slip , your tricks I know full well . And you that fell your wares by weight and live upon the trade , Some beams be false , some waits too ligh such tricks there have been played . But small Coals , or great Coals , I have them on my back , The goose lies in the bottom , you may hear the Duck cry quack , Thus grim the black Collier , whose living is so lose , As he does walk the commons over , sometime he steals a Goose . Thou Usurer , with thy money bags that livest so at ease By gaping after gold , thou dost thy mighty God displease , And for thy greedy usury , and thy great extortion , Except thou dost repent thy sins , hellfire will be thy portion . For first I came to Houns-ditch then round about I crept , Where cruelty was crowned chief , and pity fast asleep : Where Usury gets profit , and brokers bear the bell . O fie upon this deadly since , it sinks the soul to hell . The man that sweeps the chimneys with the bush of thorns , And on his neck a truss of poles tipped all with horns : With care he is not cumbered , he lives not in dread ; For though he wear them on his pole some wear them on their head . The Landlord with his racking rends turn poor men out of door , Their children go a begging , where they have spent their store . I hope none is offended with that which is endited ; If any be , let him go home , and take a pen and write it . Buy a trap a Mouse trap , a torment for the fleas : The Hangman works but half that day he lives too much at ease . Come let us leave this boys play , and idle prittle prat , And let us go to nine holes , to spurn-point or to cat . O you nimble fingered lads that live upon your wits , Take heed of Tyburn Ague , for they be dangerous fits : For many a proper man for to supply his lack , Loath leap a leap at Tyburn , which makes his neck to crack . And to him that writ this song I give this simple lo Let everyone be ready to give him half a pot . And thus I do conclude , wishing both health and peace To those that are laid in their bed , and cannot sleep for fleas . FINIS . W. Turner London , Printed for F.C. T.V. and W.G. 1662. 