: 913 THE Usurers Daughters Reply , OR , FLOROMELLAS Answer toPHAON . To a Pleasant New Play-House Tune . NOw young tempting Phaon you shall have your prey , Floramella does your mind fulfil , And though Gold could never force me to obey , free [ l ] y I consent unto your will : Were my Beauty under twenty Locks kept fast , Love should Pick them , and break through at last , While Dads find us missing , Kissing we will lie , Let them keep in Bondage Baggs on high , My Gentle Charming Phaon minutes shall not die , Money shall not part my Love and I . II Loves sweet gentle Spring shall always fresh remain , and our Lips redouble Blows of ease , Phaon ne'r shall find from me a dull disdain , for I'le teach how Maids shall men appease : Love on Downy Pillows e'ry night shall rest Upon Floramellas Tender Breast . While Old , etc III . There's no Man so dull but has for us desire , and with Blushing-Virgins would be bold , Oft attempting for to raise a wanton Fire , when they find us like the Winter Cold : And though Maidens hearts are like Unpolisht-steel , By Men's art and Labour , smoother feel . While Old , etc IV. Beauty was Created for the Lovers aid , else a Lovely Image does but prove , And no Liveless Statue , but a Lively Maid , the young brisk and bonny wantons Love : Though Pigmalions Mistress made of Stone & Art ; Once did Captivate her Makers heart . While Old , etc V. Phaon shall lie safe in Floramellas arms , and possess that Bliss that Gods admire , Circled in a thousand gay and pleasing Charms , that in Hermit's might create a Fire : As fair Venus with Adonis us'd to toy , When she once did Court that Beauteous Boy . While Dads , etc VI . A long lasting Night to us will seem but short , for the lightfoot hours post away , Fly away too soon , while Lovers make their Court , thus the Mad-Cap Night brings on the day : And the day would soon reveal our sweet Delight ; But the Stars will tell no Tales by night . While Dads , etc VII . Thus thy Floramella on her Phaons Cheek , all the sweet Delights of Love will taste , There for Cupids Bow and arrows I will seek , and the winged Hours will not was All my Coyness shall be melted , and be gone , Like the Mountain Snow with midday Sun. While Dads find us missing , Kissing we will lie , Let them keep in Bondage Baggs on high , My gentle Charming Phaon minutes shall not die , Money shall not part my Love and I . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , in Pie Corner . : 913 THE Usurers Daughters Reply , OR , FLOROMELLAS Answer toPHAON . To a Pleasant New Play-House Tune . NOw young tempting Phaon you shall have your prey , Floramella does your mind fulfil , And though Gold could never force me to obey , free [ l ] y I consent unto your will : Were my Beauty under twenty Locks kept fast , Love should Pick them , and break through at last , While Dads find us missing , Kissing we will lie , Let them keep in Bondage Baggs on high , My Gentle Charming Phaon minutes shall not die , Money shall not part my Love and I . II Loves sweet gentle Spring shall always fresh remain , and our Lips redouble Blows of ease , Phaon ne'r shall find from me a dull disdain , for I'le teach how Maids shall men appease : Love on Downy Pillows e'ry night shall rest Upon Floramellas Tender Breast . While Old , etc III . There's no Man so dull but has for us desire , and with Blushing-Virgins would be bold , Oft attempting for to raise a wanton Fire , when they find us like the Winter Cold : And though Maidens hearts are like Unpolisht-steel , By Men's art and Labour , smoother feel . While Old , etc IV. Beauty was Created for the Lovers aid , else a Lovely Image does but prove , And no Liveless Statue , but a Lively Maid , the young brisk and bonny wantons Love : Though Pigmalions Mistress made of Stone & Art ; Once did Captivate her Makers heart . While Old , etc V. Phaon shall lie safe in Floramellas arms , and possess that Bliss that Gods admire , Circled in a thousand gay and pleasing Charms , that in Hermit's might create a Fire : As fair Venus with Adonis us'd to toy , When she once did Court that Beauteous Boy . While Dads , etc VI . A long lasting Night to us will seem but short , for the lightfoot hours post away , Fly away too soon , while Lovers make their Court , thus the Mad-Cap Night brings on the day : And the day would soon reveal our sweet Delight ; But the Stars will tell no Tales by night . While Dads , etc VII . Thus thy Floramella on her Phaons Cheek , all the sweet Delights of Love will taste , There for Cupids Bow and arrows I will seek , and the winged Hours will not was All my Coyness shall be melted , and be gone , Like the Mountain Snow with midday Sun. While Dads find us missing , Kissing we will lie , Let them keep in Bondage Baggs on high , My gentle Charming Phaon minutes shall not die , Money shall not part my Love and I . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , in Pie Corner . 