A Trial of skill , performed by a poor decay'd Gentlewoman . Who Cheated a rich Grazier of Sevenscore pound , and left him a Child to keep . If you will know , then listen a while , And you shall know that which will make you smile . The Tune is , Ragged and Torn . KInd Countrymen list to my Ditty , I pray you whatever you be , I know that my case you will pity , I pray then take warning by me : Sevenscore pounds I did loose , beside a fine Babe at Nurse , My Sweetheart she did me abuse , and left me no Coin in my Purse : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . I brought some Cattle to Town , and sold them for Sevenscore pound , But moneyless then I went home , with sorrow encompassed round : A dainty fine Cloak-bag I had , within it my treasure I laid , My fortune now makes me sad , to think how that I was betray'd . Take heed , etc As through Cheapside I did pass , mistrusting no manner of harm , I met with a poor decay'd Lass , with a pretty fine Child in her arm : She seemed in habit , to be a Gentlewoman that was made poor , She asked relief then of me , then I thought to have made her my whore Take heed , etc Quoth she , pray yield some relief , these words then unto me she said , Unto a poor wretch full of grief , a poor Gentlewoman decay'd : Fair Mistress , quoth I , I do grieve , to see you distressed to be , But I all your wants will relieve , if you will be ruled by me : Take heed , etc Go with me unto my Inn , and there you shall lie at your ease , You never was brought up to Spin , but Gentlemens humours to please : I'le tell them that you are my wife , and this is my Child that you have , 'Twas I that did breed all the strife , and with myself played the Knave . Take heed , etc She seemed to be over-joy'd , and cast a Sheeps-eye upon me , She could not be better imploy'd , and so we did quickly agree : When unto the Inn I did come , her fingers did itch at my Pelf , I call'd for a large fair Room , for my Wife , my Child , and myself : Take heed of bad Women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . A Dainty fine Supper we had , and brought up unto us with speed , But all the charge lay upon me , I paid for it soundly indeed : Now when we had sup'd I kissed her , and she was as willing as I , But would to God that I had missed her , and her decay'd Gentility : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . Down stairs then softly she went , and call'd for my Cloak-bag with speed , This Harlot was surely bent , for to undo me with speed : My Night-clothes are in it , quoth she , such mischief in Harlots are rife , He gave her my Cloak-bag most free , as thinking she had been my wife : Take heed , etc She cunningly slunk out of doors , when nobody did her mind , I may bid a pox of all Whores , for leaving her Bastard behind : Now farewell my sevenscore pound , Lullaby must be my Song , I'me left like a Horse in the pound , 'tis I that must suffer the wrong : Take heed , etc I call'd her to come unto bed , not thinking I had been undone , I looked like a man had been dead , when as I perceiv'd she was gone : I fretted , I fum'd , I swore , the Child had god a new Dad , And when I began for to roar , the people did think I was mad : Take heed etc The Chamberlain run up amain , sir , what is the matter ( quoth he ) Oh call back that woman again , for she hath quite ruined me : She leaveth her Bastard behind her , on purpose to shorten my life , Oh prithee see if thou canst find her , for why ? she is none of my Wife : Take heed , etc But where is my Cloak-bag I pray , for therein lies all my gains ? I gave it your wife by my faith , then would you were hang'd for your pains You call'd her your wife and your honey , why should not your wife then be bold , To have the command of your money , your Cloak-bag , your Silver and Gold : Take heed , etc The Child lay crying apace , and I lay swearing as fast , To understand rightly my case , the Innkeeper came at the las When he understood the matter , he said he was glad 'twas no worse , He told me that he would not flatter , for I must provide me a Nurse : Take heed , etc I'm sorry you met with this Varlet , the cause of your sorrow and grief , But you would have made her your Harlot , if she had not proved a Thief : You wanted a bit for your Cat , to purge out your mad melancholy , I pray you think wisely of that , for you have paid well for your folly : Take heed , etc This was all the comfort he gave , I was never before so beguil'd , The folks in the house did outbrave me , and bid me provide for my Child : I carried my Child unto Nurse , to end all the trouble and strife , With never a groat in my Purse , I went home unto my Wife : Take heed , etc No wonder that Meat is so dear , the Grazier so pincheth the poor , But now it does plainly appear , the Grazier maintaineth a Whore Since Wenches so chargeable are , the Grazier had need to be witty , If ever it should be his care , to fetch his loss out of the City . Take heed of bad women therefore , etc FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Trial of skill , performed by a poor decay'd Gentlewoman . Who Cheated a rich Grazier of Sevenscore pound , and left him a Child to keep . If you will know , then listen a while , And you shall know that which will make you smile . The Tune is , Ragged and Torn . KInd Countrymen list to my Ditty , I pray you whatever you be , I know that my case you will pity , I pray then take warning by me : Sevenscore pounds I did loose , beside a fine Babe at Nurse , My Sweetheart she did me abuse , and left me no Coin in my Purse : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . I brought some Cattle to Town , and sold them for Sevenscore pound , But moneyless then I went home , with sorrow encompassed round : A dainty fine Cloak-bag I had , within it my treasure I laid , My fortune now makes me sad , to think how that I was betray'd . Take heed , etc As through Cheapside I did pass , mistrusting no manner of harm , I met with a poor decay'd Lass , with a pretty fine Child in her arm : She seemed in habit , to be a Gentlewoman that was made poor , She asked relief then of me , then I thought to have made her my whore Take heed , etc Quoth she , pray yield some relief , these words then unto me she said , Unto a poor wretch full of grief , a poor Gentlewoman decay'd : Fair Mistress , quoth I , I do grieve , to see you distressed to be , But I all your wants will relieve , if you will be ruled by me : Take heed , etc Go with me unto my Inn , and there you shall lie at your ease , You never was brought up to Spin , but Gentlemens humours to please : I'le tell them that you are my wife , and this is my Child that you have , 'Twas I that did breed all the strife , and with myself played the Knave . Take heed , etc She seemed to be over-joy'd , and cast a Sheeps-eye upon me , She could not be better imploy'd , and so we did quickly agree : When unto the Inn I did come , her fingers did itch at my Pelf , I call'd for a large fair Room , for my Wife , my Child , and myself : Take heed of bad Women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . A Dainty fine Supper we had , and brought up unto us with speed , But all the charge lay upon me , I paid for it soundly indeed : Now when we had sup'd I kissed her , and she was as willing as I , But would to God that I had missed her , and her decay'd Gentility : Take heed of bad women therefore , by women are men overthrown , And rich men are often made poor , when as they keep more then their own . Down stairs then softly she went , and call'd for my Cloak-bag with speed , This Harlot was surely bent , for to undo me with speed : My Night-clothes are in it , quoth she , such mischief in Harlots are rife , He gave her my Cloak-bag most free , as thinking she had been my wife : Take heed , etc She cunningly slunk out of doors , when nobody did her mind , I may bid a pox of all Whores , for leaving her Bastard behind : Now farewell my sevenscore pound , Lullaby must be my Song , I'me left like a Horse in the pound , 'tis I that must suffer the wrong : Take heed , etc I call'd her to come unto bed , not thinking I had been undone , I looked like a man had been dead , when as I perceiv'd she was gone : I fretted , I fum'd , I swore , the Child had god a new Dad , And when I began for to roar , the people did think I was mad : Take heed etc The Chamberlain run up amain , sir , what is the matter ( quoth he ) Oh call back that woman again , for she hath quite ruined me : She leaveth her Bastard behind her , on purpose to shorten my life , Oh prithee see if thou canst find her , for why ? she is none of my Wife : Take heed , etc But where is my Cloak-bag I pray , for therein lies all my gains ? I gave it your wife by my faith , then would you were hang'd for your pains You call'd her your wife and your honey , why should not your wife then be bold , To have the command of your money , your Cloak-bag , your Silver and Gold : Take heed , etc The Child lay crying apace , and I lay swearing as fast , To understand rightly my case , the Innkeeper came at the las When he understood the matter , he said he was glad 'twas no worse , He told me that he would not flatter , for I must provide me a Nurse : Take heed , etc I'm sorry you met with this Varlet , the cause of your sorrow and grief , But you would have made her your Harlot , if she had not proved a Thief : You wanted a bit for your Cat , to purge out your mad melancholy , I pray you think wisely of that , for you have paid well for your folly : Take heed , etc This was all the comfort he gave , I was never before so beguil'd , The folks in the house did outbrave me , and bid me provide for my Child : I carried my Child unto Nurse , to end all the trouble and strife , With never a groat in my Purse , I went home unto my Wife : Take heed , etc No wonder that Meat is so dear , the Grazier so pincheth the poor , But now it does plainly appear , the Grazier maintaineth a Whore Since Wenches so chargeable are , the Grazier had need to be witty , If ever it should be his care , to fetch his loss out of the City . Take heed of bad women therefore , etc FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 