The Distracted SAILOR , Tune ---- What is greater Joy , etc O How pleasant are young Lovers , When their Courtship first begins , And their Faces oft discover ; The great Pleasures they are in , When one seems to like the other , Hand in hand these Lovers move , What sweet Kisses do they smother ; And their prattle Tales of Love , Just so Bill the Sailor courted , Molly and she was most kind , For they oft had kiss'd and sported , And both persuaded were in mind , She consented for to have him , he made Vows to her again , he would wed , if she'd not leave him , When he did return from Spain . Then a Piece of Gold was broken , And each other took a Part , And by her these Words were spoken , Billy , thou hast wone my heart , May the heavens bless you thither , And your safe return again , Molly's your's alone forever , When you do return again . Arm in Arm they kiss'd each other , And repeated Vows did make , Ever to love one another ; But said Billy my heart does ache , Lest in absence you should leave me , Then my heart would burst in twain , Curse on Moll if I deceive thee , But stay till thou dost come from Spain . Bill a Golden Locket gave her , And begg'd of her to be true , Moll reply'd as I'm a Sinner , I will never be false to you , Then they parted with Eyes weeping ; And he sail'd away for Spain , For two Years he had been missing , But he is now returned again . Several Letters he had sent her , From Portugal , and the Spanish Shore , With Tokens hoping would content her ; Until to England he came o'er , But no Answer he receiv'd ; 'Till with Admiral Lake he came , Then his heart was sorely grieved , Oh! that I had but stayed in Spain . For he found his Molly married , And curs'd false Lovers all , Since his Molly now was carried , By her Husband to Blackwall ; He cried out now in vexation , Now some new found Land I'll find ; There wild Beasts have more Compassion , Than deluding Women kind . But alas ! he's soar tormented , And cries out I am undone , For my Soul is discontented , And I shall distracted run ; Molly's false and has deceiv'd me , Oh! you Furies , why do you stay , Of my Torments soon relieve me , Take my wretched Life away . Now he rends his Clothes asunder , And is into Distraction run ; In Bedlam , to all Peoples Wonder , This distracted Sailor's gone ; There in Links of Iron chained , And in Straw alone does lie ; Against Molly he exclaimed , For her wretched Perjury . Day and Night his Chains he rattles , As if Bedlam he'd pull down , Come my Sailors think of Battles , And of storming Spanish Towns . Hollow you Sir Bedlam's Porter . Bring false Molly here again , I will ram her in a Mortar , And shoot false Molly into Spain . The Distracted SAILOR , Tune ---- What is greater Joy , etc O How pleasant are young Lovers , When their Courtship first begins , And their Faces oft discover ; The great Pleasures they are in , When one seems to like the other , Hand in hand these Lovers move , What sweet Kisses do they smother ; And their prattle Tales of Love , Just so Bill the Sailor courted , Molly and she was most kind , For they oft had kiss'd and sported , And both persuaded were in mind , She consented for to have him , he made Vows to her again , he would wed , if she'd not leave him , When he did return from Spain . Then a Piece of Gold was broken , And each other took a Part , And by her these Words were spoken , Billy , thou hast wone my heart , May the heavens bless you thither , And your safe return again , Molly's your's alone forever , When you do return again . Arm in Arm they kiss'd each other , And repeated Vows did make , Ever to love one another ; But said Billy my heart does ache , Lest in absence you should leave me , Then my heart would burst in twain , Curse on Moll if I deceive thee , But stay till thou dost come from Spain . Bill a Golden Locket gave her , And begg'd of her to be true , Moll reply'd as I'm a Sinner , I will never be false to you , Then they parted with Eyes weeping ; And he sail'd away for Spain , For two Years he had been missing , But he is now returned again . Several Letters he had sent her , From Portugal , and the Spanish Shore , With Tokens hoping would content her ; Until to England he came o'er , But no Answer he receiv'd ; 'Till with Admiral Lake he came , Then his heart was sorely grieved , Oh! that I had but stayed in Spain . For he found his Molly married , And curs'd false Lovers all , Since his Molly now was carried , By her Husband to Blackwall ; He cried out now in vexation , Now some new found Land I'll find ; There wild Beasts have more Compassion , Than deluding Women kind . But alas ! he's soar tormented , And cries out I am undone , For my Soul is discontented , And I shall distracted run ; Molly's false and has deceiv'd me , Oh! you Furies , why do you stay , Of my Torments soon relieve me , Take my wretched Life away . Now he rends his Clothes asunder , And is into Distraction run ; In Bedlam , to all Peoples Wonder , This distracted Sailor's gone ; There in Links of Iron chained , And in Straw alone does lie ; Against Molly he exclaimed , For her wretched Perjury . Day and Night his Chains he rattles , As if Bedlam he'd pull down , Come my Sailors think of Battles , And of storming Spanish Towns . Hollow you Sir Bedlam's Porter . Bring false Molly here again , I will ram her in a Mortar , And shoot false Molly into Spain . 