The Tormented Lovers . Maidens Lament their present State , And count they meet with rigid Fate ; But e're they will their minds explain , They'l die of their Tormenting Pain . [ To ] a pleasant Playhouse Tune , called , O Love ! if e're thoul't ease a Heart . O Love if e're thou'lt ease a Heart , that owns thy power Divine , That Bleeds with thy too cruel Dart ; Yea , Burns with never ceasing smart ; take pity now on mine : Beneath the shades , I fainting lie ; Ten Thousand times I wish to die ; Yet when I find cold Death draw nigh , I grieve to lose my pleasing pain , and call my Wishes back again . Thus I sat musing all alone , in the shady myrtle Grove , As to myself , I made a moan , And every Echo gave a Groan ; came by the Man I Lov'd . Oh! How I strove , my Griefs to hide , I Panted , Sigh'd , and almost Dy'd , Yet did each tattling Echo chide ; for fear some Breath of moving Air , should to his Ears my Sorrows bear . And now you Powers , I die to gain , but one poor parting kiss ; Yet will endure this deadly pain , E're I'le one Wish or Thought retain , that Honour thinks amiss . Thus are poor maids unkindly us'd , By Love and Nature , both abus'd , All kinds of Comforts are refus'd : for when we burn with secret Flame , we hide our griefs , or die with shame . Such Torments we poor Maids endure ; the like was never known , In any former Age 'tis sure , Nor can we hope to find a cure which moves us thus to moan : In secret places , where we lie , Each Minute ready for to die ; And all in vain , for help we cry . For comfortless we still remain , tortur'd with grief , and wrecked with pain . OUr Lives are comfortless to us , except we them enjoy ; Who cause us for to Languish thus : Who'd think the want of one poor Buss , could Maidens thus annoy ; That night and day we should Lament , And wast away in discontent ; Our Follies still we do repen but 'tis in vain , for 'tis too late , for to lament our rigid fate . We must these Torments still endure , except Men prove more kind ; Nought else to us can joy procure , Or bring that Bliss which will endure , as comfort to the mind . Languishing thoughts do us consume , And in the end will prove our doom ; Yea , bring each Maiden to her Tomb ; who can her Love no ways obtain , but die , because she Loves in vain . What rigid fate is this we meet , each hour of every day , While Men their days are blessed and sweet , In e'ry part our Pulses beatrice , and we consume away . Where's Cupids court of equity , For Poets say , it so should be ; But such a thing , I ne'r could see , which forces me for to complain , although I find 'tis all in vain . Then let us bid this World farewell , since we no joys can find . Elizium will this place excel ; For this to us is present Hell , tormenting every mind ; Who feels the smart of Cupids Bow , Is weary of her Life , I know She does Torments undergo , and therefore will be free to part , from this sad world , to ease her Heart . Yet those who can their Loves enjoy , thrice happy sure are they , Nothing on Earth can them annoy ; What crosses can their Bliss destroy , who surfeit every day . Banquets of kisses do they taste ; While we for want consume and was Unto the Grave , then let us hast ; for Death must be our chiefest friend , and put our Sorrows to and end . Tormented Heart , then brake and die , since I'me so slighted here ; In flames of fire , I scorch and fry , And so shall do perpetually , till I enjoy my dear ; Which if I never can obtain , To hope to Live , as all in vain ; For I with Sorrow shall be Slave ; yet freely will this Word depart , with a true Lovers Broken-Heart . London [ . ] Printed for Charles Passenger , on London-Bridge . The Tormented Lovers . Maidens Lament their present State , And count they meet with rigid Fate ; But e're they will their minds explain , They'l die of their Tormenting Pain . [ To ] a pleasant Playhouse Tune , called , O Love ! if e're thoul't ease a Heart . O Love if e're thou'lt ease a Heart , that owns thy power Divine , That Bleeds with thy too cruel Dart ; Yea , Burns with never ceasing smart ; take pity now on mine : Beneath the shades , I fainting lie ; Ten Thousand times I wish to die ; Yet when I find cold Death draw nigh , I grieve to lose my pleasing pain , and call my Wishes back again . Thus I sat musing all alone , in the shady myrtle Grove , As to myself , I made a moan , And every Echo gave a Groan ; came by the Man I Lov'd . Oh! How I strove , my Griefs to hide , I Panted , Sigh'd , and almost Dy'd , Yet did each tattling Echo chide ; for fear some Breath of moving Air , should to his Ears my Sorrows bear . And now you Powers , I die to gain , but one poor parting kiss ; Yet will endure this deadly pain , E're I'le one Wish or Thought retain , that Honour thinks amiss . Thus are poor maids unkindly us'd , By Love and Nature , both abus'd , All kinds of Comforts are refus'd : for when we burn with secret Flame , we hide our griefs , or die with shame . Such Torments we poor Maids endure ; the like was never known , In any former Age 'tis sure , Nor can we hope to find a cure which moves us thus to moan : In secret places , where we lie , Each Minute ready for to die ; And all in vain , for help we cry . For comfortless we still remain , tortur'd with grief , and wrecked with pain . OUr Lives are comfortless to us , except we them enjoy ; Who cause us for to Languish thus : Who'd think the want of one poor Buss , could Maidens thus annoy ; That night and day we should Lament , And wast away in discontent ; Our Follies still we do repen but 'tis in vain , for 'tis too late , for to lament our rigid fate . We must these Torments still endure , except Men prove more kind ; Nought else to us can joy procure , Or bring that Bliss which will endure , as comfort to the mind . Languishing thoughts do us consume , And in the end will prove our doom ; Yea , bring each Maiden to her Tomb ; who can her Love no ways obtain , but die , because she Loves in vain . What rigid fate is this we meet , each hour of every day , While Men their days are blessed and sweet , In e'ry part our Pulses beatrice , and we consume away . Where's Cupids court of equity , For Poets say , it so should be ; But such a thing , I ne'r could see , which forces me for to complain , although I find 'tis all in vain . Then let us bid this World farewell , since we no joys can find . Elizium will this place excel ; For this to us is present Hell , tormenting every mind ; Who feels the smart of Cupids Bow , Is weary of her Life , I know She does Torments undergo , and therefore will be free to part , from this sad world , to ease her Heart . Yet those who can their Loves enjoy , thrice happy sure are they , Nothing on Earth can them annoy ; What crosses can their Bliss destroy , who surfeit every day . Banquets of kisses do they taste ; While we for want consume and was Unto the Grave , then let us hast ; for Death must be our chiefest friend , and put our Sorrows to and end . Tormented Heart , then brake and die , since I'me so slighted here ; In flames of fire , I scorch and fry , And so shall do perpetually , till I enjoy my dear ; Which if I never can obtain , To hope to Live , as all in vain ; For I with Sorrow shall be Slave ; yet freely will this Word depart , with a true Lovers Broken-Heart . London [ . ] Printed for Charles Passenger , on London-Bridge . 