THE PROCLAMATION Promoted , OR AND HUE-and-CRY and Inquisition AFTER TREASON and BLOOD ; Upon the Inhumane and horrid Murder of that Noble Knight , Impartial Justice of Peace , and Zealous Protestant , Sir EDMONDBERRY GODFRY of WESTMINSTER . And hasty POEM . O Murder ! Murder ! let this Shreik fly round , Till Hills and Dales , and Rocks and Shores rebound ; Send it to Heav'n and Hell ; for both will be Astonish'd and Concern'd as much as we . First send to Endor where of old did dwell And Hag , could Fates of Kings and Kingdoms tell ; If that cannot be found , to Ekron go , To Pluto's Oracle and Hell below . There serve this Hue and Cry , for there 'twas hatch'd , ( Except the Priests their Gods have over-match'd . ) Methinks Belzebub , if he be outdone In his Grand Mysteries ; and Room needs none Of his Black Arts , but can Out-Devil Hell , His Envy and Revenge this Plot should tell : And by disclosing in his own defence , Not only vindicate his Innocence , But hasten their destruction , and prevent Loss of his Trade , ( the Jesuites intent ) Unless he fears them , as indeed he may ; When once in Hell , none shall Command but they . But if this Tragedy be all his own , And Roman Actors ( taught by him ) have shown How they can play all parts he can devise ; Female or Male , with or without disguise : And need no Cacodoemons prompting Art Or Whisper , but can fill up any part ; Fast , Pray and Weep , Swear and Forswear , Decoy , Trappan , Kiss , Flatter , Smile , and so Destroy , Stab , Pistol , Poison Kings , Unking , Dethrone , Blow up or down , Save , Damn , make all their own . Knows not he then , though founder of the Stage , The Laws of Theatres in every Age . That th' Actors , not the Author of the Play , Do challenge the Rewards of the first day . Make then their names renown'd , and come to hide Such Children of thy Revels and thy Pride ; Send to their Father , and thy eldest Son That Lucifer of Rome , what feats they've done : That he may make their names be understood , Written in Calendars of Martyrs Blood . But if the Fiends below be Deaf and Dumb , And this conjuring cannot overcome ; They and their Imps be damn'd together : I To Gods on Earth will send my Hue and Cry . Arise Just Charles , Three Kingdoms Soul and mine , Great James thy Grandfather could well divine ; And without Spell the bloody Riddle Spell , Writ by like Secretary's of Room and Hell . And if Thy Proclamation cannot do , We pray Gods Spirit may inspire Thee too . If Thy Prophetic Usher did not err , The Mass would enter by a Massacre . The Wounds Thy Godfry found were meant for Thee , And Thou ly'st Murder'd in Effigy . In Gods Kings Kingdoms Cause this Knight was slave , Let him a Noble Monument obtain ; Erected in Your Westminsters great Hall , That Courts of Justice may lament his Fallen : And may ( when any Papist comes near ) His Marble Statue yield a bloody tear . Yet let him not be buried , let him lie , The fairest Image to draw Justice by . There needs no Balm or Spices to preserve The Corpse from Stench , his Innocence will serve . the Lords and Commons join your speedy Votes , A Pack of Bloud-Hounds threaten all your Throats . And if their Treason be not understood , Expect to be dissolv'd in your own Blood . O Vote that every Papist ( high and low ) To martyr'd Godfry's Corpse in person go ; And laying hand upon his wounded Breast , By Oath and Curse his ignorance protest . But o the Atheism of that Monstrous Crew , Whose Holy Father can all Bonds undo : Whose Breath can put away the heavi'st Oath ; Who fears no Heaven nor Hell , but laughs at both . Therefore a safer Vote my Muse suggests , For Priests and Jesuites can swallow Tests As Hocus Pocus does his Rope or Knife , And cheats the gaping Farmer and his Wife . O Vote each Signpost shall a Gibbet be , And hang a Traitor upon every Tree . Yet we'le find Wood enough for Bonfire piles , T' inlighten and inflame our British Isles Upon th' approaching fifth November night , And make Incendiaries curse the light . November Fires Septembers may reveal , One Burn ( we say ) another Burn will heal . Lastly , And surely , let this Hue and Cry Reach Heaven , where every Star looks like and Eye To that High Court of Parliament above , Whose Laws are mixed with Justice and with Love ; Whither Just Godfry's Soul's already come , And hath receiv'd the Crown of Martyrdom ; Where Murder'd Kings and slaughter'd Saints do cry , Their Blood may never unrevenged lie . the Saints and Angels hate that Scarlet Whore , Whose Priests and Bats before your Shrines adore , And in their Massacres your Aid implore ; Staining your Altars with the precious Gore : Pour down your Vials on their Cursed heads , And in Eternal flames prepare their Beds . And Thou Judge Jesus Hang'd and Murder'd too , By Power of Rome and Malice of the Jew , In Godfry's Wounds Thine own doe bleed anew . O Rend Thy Heavens ! Come Lord and take Thy Throne , Revenge Thy Martyrs Murder and Thine own . Licensed November 1. 1678. London , Printed for J.L. at the Blew-Bell in Fleet-street , MDCLXXVIII . THE PROCLAMATION Promoted , OR AND HUE-and-CRY and Inquisition AFTER TREASON and BLOOD ; Upon the Inhumane and horrid Murder of that Noble Knight , Impartial Justice of Peace , and Zealous Protestant , Sir EDMONDBERRY GODFRY of WESTMINSTER . And hasty POEM . O Murder ! Murder ! let this Shreik fly round , Till Hills and Dales , and Rocks and Shores rebound ; Send it to Heav'n and Hell ; for both will be Astonish'd and Concern'd as much as we . First send to Endor where of old did dwell And Hag , could Fates of Kings and Kingdoms tell ; If that cannot be found , to Ekron go , To Pluto's Oracle and Hell below . There serve this Hue and Cry , for there 'twas hatch'd , ( Except the Priests their Gods have over-match'd . ) Methinks Belzebub , if he be outdone In his Grand Mysteries ; and Room needs none Of his Black Arts , but can Out-Devil Hell , His Envy and Revenge this Plot should tell : And by disclosing in his own defence , Not only vindicate his Innocence , But hasten their destruction , and prevent Loss of his Trade , ( the Jesuites intent ) Unless he fears them , as indeed he may ; When once in Hell , none shall Command but they . But if this Tragedy be all his own , And Roman Actors ( taught by him ) have shown How they can play all parts he can devise ; Female or Male , with or without disguise : And need no Cacodoemons prompting Art Or Whisper , but can fill up any part ; Fast , Pray and Weep , Swear and Forswear , Decoy , Trappan , Kiss , Flatter , Smile , and so Destroy , Stab , Pistol , Poison Kings , Unking , Dethrone , Blow up or down , Save , Damn , make all their own . Knows not he then , though founder of the Stage , The Laws of Theatres in every Age . That th' Actors , not the Author of the Play , Do challenge the Rewards of the first day . Make then their names renown'd , and come to hide Such Children of thy Revels and thy Pride ; Send to their Father , and thy eldest Son That Lucifer of Rome , what feats they've done : That he may make their names be understood , Written in Calendars of Martyrs Blood . But if the Fiends below be Deaf and Dumb , And this conjuring cannot overcome ; They and their Imps be damn'd together : I To Gods on Earth will send my Hue and Cry . Arise Just Charles , Three Kingdoms Soul and mine , Great James thy Grandfather could well divine ; And without Spell the bloody Riddle Spell , Writ by like Secretary's of Room and Hell . And if Thy Proclamation cannot do , We pray Gods Spirit may inspire Thee too . If Thy Prophetic Usher did not err , The Mass would enter by a Massacre . The Wounds Thy Godfry found were meant for Thee , And Thou ly'st Murder'd in Effigy . In Gods Kings Kingdoms Cause this Knight was slave , Let him a Noble Monument obtain ; Erected in Your Westminsters great Hall , That Courts of Justice may lament his Fallen : And may ( when any Papist comes near ) His Marble Statue yield a bloody tear . Yet let him not be buried , let him lie , The fairest Image to draw Justice by . There needs no Balm or Spices to preserve The Corpse from Stench , his Innocence will serve . the Lords and Commons join your speedy Votes , A Pack of Bloud-Hounds threaten all your Throats . And if their Treason be not understood , Expect to be dissolv'd in your own Blood . O Vote that every Papist ( high and low ) To martyr'd Godfry's Corpse in person go ; And laying hand upon his wounded Breast , By Oath and Curse his ignorance protest . But o the Atheism of that Monstrous Crew , Whose Holy Father can all Bonds undo : Whose Breath can put away the heavi'st Oath ; Who fears no Heaven nor Hell , but laughs at both . Therefore a safer Vote my Muse suggests , For Priests and Jesuites can swallow Tests As Hocus Pocus does his Rope or Knife , And cheats the gaping Farmer and his Wife . O Vote each Signpost shall a Gibbet be , And hang a Traitor upon every Tree . Yet we'le find Wood enough for Bonfire piles , T' inlighten and inflame our British Isles Upon th' approaching fifth November night , And make Incendiaries curse the light . November Fires Septembers may reveal , One Burn ( we say ) another Burn will heal . Lastly , And surely , let this Hue and Cry Reach Heaven , where every Star looks like and Eye To that High Court of Parliament above , Whose Laws are mixed with Justice and with Love ; Whither Just Godfry's Soul's already come , And hath receiv'd the Crown of Martyrdom ; Where Murder'd Kings and slaughter'd Saints do cry , Their Blood may never unrevenged lie . the Saints and Angels hate that Scarlet Whore , Whose Priests and Bats before your Shrines adore , And in their Massacres your Aid implore ; Staining your Altars with the precious Gore : Pour down your Vials on their Cursed heads , And in Eternal flames prepare their Beds . And Thou Judge Jesus Hang'd and Murder'd too , By Power of Rome and Malice of the Jew , In Godfry's Wounds Thine own doe bleed anew . O Rend Thy Heavens ! Come Lord and take Thy Throne , Revenge Thy Martyrs Murder and Thine own . Licensed November 1. 1678. London , Printed for J.L. at the Blew-Bell in Fleet-street , MDCLXXVIII . 