The Pensive Lover ; OR , The Damosels Crosses Crown'd with Comfort . She for a time had lost her Swain , for which her Heart near broke ; Likewise she would herself have slave , but Phaon stopped the Stroke . To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts . O Pity a harmless Maid you Lovers that hear my moan Young Phaon is from me stray'd , and here I am left alone : My sorrows was ne'r so severe , as now for the loss of my Swain , Alas ! I have reason to fear , I never shall see him again . Through Valleys I range and rove , and Deserts both far and near , And every shady Grove , in order to find my Dear : But weary of wandering now , since Phaon I cannot find , Oh here in these Shades I vow , my breath shall be straight resign'd . Sweet Death thou must prove my friend , since there is no joys appears , For why should I live to spend , my sorrowful days in tears : His innocent Life is betray'd , alas ! I have cause to fear , Or else he would ne'r have stay'd so long from his dearest Dear . He never was false to me , but true as the Turtle-Dove , Therefore I know that he would never desert his Love : But that some unfortunate doom , has blasted the days of my Dear , Oh would I had dy'd in his room , for I have no Comfort here . Whenever I close my Eyes , to slumber and take my rest , I fancy I hear the Cries of Phaon my Love , oppress His body all bathed in Blood , thus gashful my Love he appears , At this my poor eyes , like a flood , does melt into showers of Tears . Farewell to the World , said she , since Phaon is not alive , This Minute i'le come to thee , for why should I here survive ? Then taking a Weapon so keen , so soon as these words she had spoke , But Phaon straight stepped in between , and hinder'd the fatal stroke . As soon as she e're beheld young Phaon , her hearts delight , She was with Love-Raptures fill'd , her sorrows all banished quite : With trembling voice she reply'd , sweet Phaon thou'rt welcome to me , My Patience , alas ! has been try'd , but now I am happy in thee . Pardon , fair Cynthia , he said , for leaving thee sighing here , My Flocks with their Lambs they strayed and I have rang'd far and near : The Valleys , nay , Desert and Grove , I wander from morning till night , But now I am come to my Love , to Crown thee with joy and deligh Whenever I slept , said she , I waken'd in frightful Dreams , Thy Body I thought I see all bathed in Purple Streams : When I in this passion did wake , and just at the point of Despair , I knew not what course I should take , my sorrows I could not bear . Love , dry off thy Tears , said she , since I am alive and well , And here in the shades with thee , hereafter I mean to dwell : And never will wander again from thee who I dearly adore , The Glory of all the whole Plain , fair Cynthia shall be therefore . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on Lundon Bridge . The Pensive Lover ; OR , The Damosels Crosses Crown'd with Comfort . She for a time had lost her Swain , for which her Heart near broke ; Likewise she would herself have slave , but Phaon stopped the Stroke . To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts . O Pity a harmless Maid you Lovers that hear my moan Young Phaon is from me stray'd , and here I am left alone : My sorrows was ne'r so severe , as now for the loss of my Swain , Alas ! I have reason to fear , I never shall see him again . Through Valleys I range and rove , and Deserts both far and near , And every shady Grove , in order to find my Dear : But weary of wandering now , since Phaon I cannot find , Oh here in these Shades I vow , my breath shall be straight resign'd . Sweet Death thou must prove my friend , since there is no joys appears , For why should I live to spend , my sorrowful days in tears : His innocent Life is betray'd , alas ! I have cause to fear , Or else he would ne'r have stay'd so long from his dearest Dear . He never was false to me , but true as the Turtle-Dove , Therefore I know that he would never desert his Love : But that some unfortunate doom , has blasted the days of my Dear , Oh would I had dy'd in his room , for I have no Comfort here . Whenever I close my Eyes , to slumber and take my rest , I fancy I hear the Cries of Phaon my Love , oppress His body all bathed in Blood , thus gashful my Love he appears , At this my poor eyes , like a flood , does melt into showers of Tears . Farewell to the World , said she , since Phaon is not alive , This Minute i'le come to thee , for why should I here survive ? Then taking a Weapon so keen , so soon as these words she had spoke , But Phaon straight stepped in between , and hinder'd the fatal stroke . As soon as she e're beheld young Phaon , her hearts delight , She was with Love-Raptures fill'd , her sorrows all banished quite : With trembling voice she reply'd , sweet Phaon thou'rt welcome to me , My Patience , alas ! has been try'd , but now I am happy in thee . Pardon , fair Cynthia , he said , for leaving thee sighing here , My Flocks with their Lambs they strayed and I have rang'd far and near : The Valleys , nay , Desert and Grove , I wander from morning till night , But now I am come to my Love , to Crown thee with joy and deligh Whenever I slept , said she , I waken'd in frightful Dreams , Thy Body I thought I see all bathed in Purple Streams : When I in this passion did wake , and just at the point of Despair , I knew not what course I should take , my sorrows I could not bear . Love , dry off thy Tears , said she , since I am alive and well , And here in the shades with thee , hereafter I mean to dwell : And never will wander again from thee who I dearly adore , The Glory of all the whole Plain , fair Cynthia shall be therefore . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on Lundon Bridge . 