Directions for Damosels , OR The Maidens advice , in and answer to the Youngman's Counseller . You that a kind good Husband lack Let me with you prevail , To choose a Brown or curious Black , These colours never fail . Tune of , All Trades . This may be Printed , R.P. Oh Now I have counsell'd youngmen what Wives they have reason to choose ; I tell the young Damsels again , what Husbands they ought to refuse Beware of fair men that can joke , with every Wind they can wave , And will your kind spirits provoke , and make you and absolute Slave . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young Women may find them loving and kind , they'l give them whatever they lack . Ne'r marry one with a weigh Beard , He is of the fumbling Crew ; Of such I have often times herd , they little or nothing can do ; And therefore , I pray now take heed , all Wey-Beards forever refrain ; For when you are married indeed , 'tis never the near to complain . But as for the Brown , etc The Sandy Complexion are Sots , and given to anger and strife , Whoever has such to their lots , they need no more plague in their life . From Alehouse to Alehouse they'l trudge , and make their Wives take all the care , Too often they make them their Drudge , of Sandy Complexion beware . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young-women may find them loving & kind , etc The Flaxen , tho' ne'r so complete , and by the young Damosels ador'd , Yet are they as full of deceit , as all the whole World can afford . They'l flatter , dissemble , and lie , poor innocent Girls to betray ; And if to their will you comply , they'l pack up their Awls and away . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : What promise they make they'l never forsake , they scorn to be found to fly back . Beware of the Yellow curl'd locks , such men are both wanton and wild ; They'l play with the fine Holland Smocks , and get the young Lasses with Child : For pleasure abroad they will Rome , and lay the young Females along , Yet they'l do but little at home . what Woman can bear with this wrong . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young-women may find them loving and kind , they'l give them whatever they lack . The Swarthy I cannot forget ; and now to give them their desert , They have neither Beauty nor Wit , nor any commendable par And therefore Remember the word , take no such sad sorrowful soul ; They say they have need of a Bird , that will give a Groat for and Owl . But as for the Brown , etc Beware of the head that is Gray , old-men they will jealousy breed , And think that the wanton you play , altho' you be honest indeed , He's chilly and cold in his blood , and never a Tooth in his Jaw ; He'l do a young Wife no more good than tickle her Tale with a Straw . But as for the Brown , etc The Flaxen and Gray I forbid , with Sandy , for bad is the bes But now I am come to the Read , which is seven times worse than the rest , He's full of ill humours , therefore he stinks , let him do what he can , As Ramish as any old Boar : what Woman can love such a Man. But as for the Brown , etc Youngmen that are freckled and fair , are commonly given to lies : But black men and brown I declare , are known to be virtuous and wise , They hate for to wrangle and brawl , they honour and nourish their Wives , And never will wrong them at all , But love them as dear as their lives . Stand up for the Brown , etc Young Damsels of e'ry degree , Whose Beauty does Bachelors charm , Come buy this New Ditty of me , good counsel can do you no harm ; Tho' formerly you have bought many : this may keep your days free from strife , And then it will be the best-Penny as e're you laid out in your life . Then Heigh for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young Women may find them loving and kind , they'l give them whatever they lack . Printed for J Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . Directions for Damosels , OR The Maidens advice , in and answer to the Youngman's Counseller . You that a kind good Husband lack Let me with you prevail , To choose a Brown or curious Black , These colours never fail . Tune of , All Trades . This may be Printed , R.P. Oh Now I have counsell'd youngmen what Wives they have reason to choose ; I tell the young Damsels again , what Husbands they ought to refuse Beware of fair men that can joke , with every Wind they can wave , And will your kind spirits provoke , and make you and absolute Slave . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young Women may find them loving and kind , they'l give them whatever they lack . Ne'r marry one with a weigh Beard , He is of the fumbling Crew ; Of such I have often times herd , they little or nothing can do ; And therefore , I pray now take heed , all Wey-Beards forever refrain ; For when you are married indeed , 'tis never the near to complain . But as for the Brown , etc The Sandy Complexion are Sots , and given to anger and strife , Whoever has such to their lots , they need no more plague in their life . From Alehouse to Alehouse they'l trudge , and make their Wives take all the care , Too often they make them their Drudge , of Sandy Complexion beware . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young-women may find them loving & kind , etc The Flaxen , tho' ne'r so complete , and by the young Damosels ador'd , Yet are they as full of deceit , as all the whole World can afford . They'l flatter , dissemble , and lie , poor innocent Girls to betray ; And if to their will you comply , they'l pack up their Awls and away . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : What promise they make they'l never forsake , they scorn to be found to fly back . Beware of the Yellow curl'd locks , such men are both wanton and wild ; They'l play with the fine Holland Smocks , and get the young Lasses with Child : For pleasure abroad they will Rome , and lay the young Females along , Yet they'l do but little at home . what Woman can bear with this wrong . But as for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young-women may find them loving and kind , they'l give them whatever they lack . The Swarthy I cannot forget ; and now to give them their desert , They have neither Beauty nor Wit , nor any commendable par And therefore Remember the word , take no such sad sorrowful soul ; They say they have need of a Bird , that will give a Groat for and Owl . But as for the Brown , etc Beware of the head that is Gray , old-men they will jealousy breed , And think that the wanton you play , altho' you be honest indeed , He's chilly and cold in his blood , and never a Tooth in his Jaw ; He'l do a young Wife no more good than tickle her Tale with a Straw . But as for the Brown , etc The Flaxen and Gray I forbid , with Sandy , for bad is the bes But now I am come to the Read , which is seven times worse than the rest , He's full of ill humours , therefore he stinks , let him do what he can , As Ramish as any old Boar : what Woman can love such a Man. But as for the Brown , etc Youngmen that are freckled and fair , are commonly given to lies : But black men and brown I declare , are known to be virtuous and wise , They hate for to wrangle and brawl , they honour and nourish their Wives , And never will wrong them at all , But love them as dear as their lives . Stand up for the Brown , etc Young Damsels of e'ry degree , Whose Beauty does Bachelors charm , Come buy this New Ditty of me , good counsel can do you no harm ; Tho' formerly you have bought many : this may keep your days free from strife , And then it will be the best-Penny as e're you laid out in your life . Then Heigh for the Brown and the Black , they both have a notable smack : Young Women may find them loving and kind , they'l give them whatever they lack . Printed for J Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 