A TALE of THE TUBBS or ROMES MASTERPEICE Defeated If Englands Prayers be herd , and Senate fit ; Down goes proud Room , French Arms , and Northern Wit . The Ale-Tub's Complaint . O Unkind Devil , thus at last deceive me ! Stay till the Ale was out , and then to leave me : Hath not my service greater been by odds , Than can be hop't from Bred and wooden Gods ? See how our offspring altogether strive , To keep the Balance and the Ale alive , Although at Bottom , while perfidious you Tack to that Triple Dog and Damned Crew Of Loyala's , till they Us all undo : Sot that you are , to have a greater hope From a few Priests , and and old doting Pope , That their dry PLOTS , can e're your int'rest further Than I have done , by Rapine , Whores , and Murder , Who by the Liquour of my musty Cell Hath sent you scores , nay hundreds , quick to Hell : You are ungrateful , thus to leave old Friends , And think Rome's Vassals e're can make amends ; Who when their work is done will Domineer ; And swear that hell was meally mouth'd for fear : Then turn your hand and on our side it give , Or they will stave my Hogshead as I live , And so grow sober , then shall both on's pass , Ale for a Witch , thou Devil for and Ass . The Devil ( or Jack on both side's ) Reply . What Ails this Drunken Puppy to Complain , Thinks he I know not where's my greatest gain : That Pack of Bandoggs , breed of Northern Tikes ; Shall Tease the souls of all that us dislikes ; Must my Vicegerent with his Triple Crown By Empty Ale-Tubs e're be weighed down ? No know I am wiser , Drunkards are but fools Unto this MEAL-TUB and his Holinesses Tools . 'Tis true , the Ale-Tub , is our friend we know , And oft from thence some Reeling to Hell go , But these can Ruin Kingdoms at a Blow . And where they Conquer , there the Herreticks feel , Far greater Torments than our whips of Steel We Exercise upon our Slaves below , Who ( but for them ) did ne're such tortures know . Flay men alive , then forth their Bowels tear , Women rip up with Child , and on their Spear Mount their young Infants , while in blood they sprawl , The Catholics way to quiet them that Bawl ; Cities Consume with fire , Ravish Maid and Wife , Destroy by Poison , Pistol , Burnings , Knife , With thousand other ways to End their hated Life . But what is best of all : when they have done , They call this holy work : most Christian ------ Acted from pure zeal , and love so mild , Makes them as guiltless as the Unborn Child ; Two Ave-marys , and one Pater-Nos ------ Will make amends for all , and quit the Cost They'r daring sinners , of the Popes first Rate , With God himself they will Equivocate ------ By Breaden Gods they can Absolve a Lie ------ Nay by the Mass they dare do more than I , Not Tremble at , but mock the Deity . ------ Then cease to murmur , they shall bear the Bell For Damn'd Designs , and PLOTS that outdoes Hell . The Jesuits speak their merits . Most Holy Father , we do much admire Your weighty Goodness , and your Reverend Sire , Whose helping hand does for us turn the Scale , By him we have , and do , and shall prevail ; 'Tis not Heavens Power that shall frustrate this Most Brave design , which in the MEAL-TUB is ; Nor Presbyterians save their hated Throats , Now at the last , by a Damn'd telltale Oats . If Hell ( for Heaven we matter not ) Conceal This Blessed Intrigue , by all our Gods the MEAL Shall have high honour , on our Altars that Made into Gods be worshipped smoking hight . This matchless Treason , makes it holy all ------ White as from Tower scrapped , or Westward Hall ; This wonder-working Euch'rist shall do more Than Jesuits Powder , Pensioner , or Whore , Or all the Baffled Plots we e're Contriv'd before , 'Twill make the Herreticks all aghast to see Themselves the Plotters , murdered Legally . And make us fat with Laughing , how they will Divided fallen and one another Kill : ------ 'Tis holy sport to see their blood run down In every Channel of the Burned Town , While Changeling Robin , Bugbear in the City , Die the Green Ribbons Read ; by Hell that's pretty : Then shall that Mote , in Northern eye be sped , After Exile call'd back to loose his head . But these are scraps of what our TUB contains , And do these Coxcombs , with their addled Brains , Think e're to weigh us down with Ale and Grains ? No Punies know , your Reeling throng's outdone , Wee'l make all England stagger e're 't be Long : But talking's Idle , let's to actium come , And strike the stroke , may Ruin Christendom . Sir William Waller to Col. Mansell . See Mansell where that Damned hellish Crew , Are plotting Murders , and begin with you ; See heaven discovers unto thee and I Their horrid Treasons , hellbred Villainy , Couched in that pacquet brought by Willoughby . O Blessed God! whose mercies infinite Do yet preserve us from Eternal Night ; It's thou alone whose heavenly goodness still Defends our Lives ( almost ) against our will , From these vile Plotters , Miscreants of Room , Bloodthirsty Villains , Pests of Christendom . Direct me Heaven to take them in their toil , And all their Treasons , and their plottings spoil . Let's in among them , Mansel , heres my hand , I'le loose my life to save my native Land. 'Tis done , says Mansel brave Sir William ; I In such a cause with you am proud to die . We'll make those Vermin know , we scorn their rage , Our nobler Souls dares Rome and Hell engage . And if such manhood Reigneth in us two , What can't the Courage of our English doe ? But Ruin all its Foes , when once provoked thereto . Let's search that Pesthouse , where the Midwife's bred Who brings Rome's Bastards and their Plots to bed , Methinks it looks , as if the Tower Beasts Had there some Prey on which they often feast . 'Tis there my Lady meets her trusty Steer ; Some Newgate-Birds and Sir Examiner . There's Stars among them whence young Tycho drew The Plots good fortune , but his own not knew ; See how the Whores of either Sexes Tug , While the Grand Bawd sits Brooding on the TUB , We'll turn the Bottom upward ere we go , I'le lay my Life there's Treason at his Toe . So off they fetch him , with his Triple Crown , And threw the Crosier , and the MEAL [ - ] TUB down ; Whence came such stuff the Devil , frighted , swore , He never saw such Princely stuff before , The West must yield the Belt unto the Nore . Thus England once more is delivered from Rome's Rogues abroad , and Plotters here at home : Stand on your Guard , now hold yourselves awake , Lest their next Plot ( you careless ) Napping take . Respice & Cave . FINIS . Printed for the Loyal Protestant , at the Sign of the True Eng - lishman in Great Britain , Nov. 11. 1679. A TALE of THE TUBBS or ROMES MASTERPEICE Defeated If Englands Prayers be herd , and Senate fit ; Down goes proud Room , French Arms , and Northern Wit . The Ale-Tub's Complaint . O Unkind Devil , thus at last deceive me ! Stay till the Ale was out , and then to leave me : Hath not my service greater been by odds , Than can be hop't from Bred and wooden Gods ? See how our offspring altogether strive , To keep the Balance and the Ale alive , Although at Bottom , while perfidious you Tack to that Triple Dog and Damned Crew Of Loyala's , till they Us all undo : Sot that you are , to have a greater hope From a few Priests , and and old doting Pope , That their dry PLOTS , can e're your int'rest further Than I have done , by Rapine , Whores , and Murder , Who by the Liquour of my musty Cell Hath sent you scores , nay hundreds , quick to Hell : You are ungrateful , thus to leave old Friends , And think Rome's Vassals e're can make amends ; Who when their work is done will Domineer ; And swear that hell was meally mouth'd for fear : Then turn your hand and on our side it give , Or they will stave my Hogshead as I live , And so grow sober , then shall both on's pass , Ale for a Witch , thou Devil for and Ass . The Devil ( or Jack on both side's ) Reply . What Ails this Drunken Puppy to Complain , Thinks he I know not where's my greatest gain : That Pack of Bandoggs , breed of Northern Tikes ; Shall Tease the souls of all that us dislikes ; Must my Vicegerent with his Triple Crown By Empty Ale-Tubs e're be weighed down ? No know I am wiser , Drunkards are but fools Unto this MEAL-TUB and his Holinesses Tools . 'Tis true , the Ale-Tub , is our friend we know , And oft from thence some Reeling to Hell go , But these can Ruin Kingdoms at a Blow . And where they Conquer , there the Herreticks feel , Far greater Torments than our whips of Steel We Exercise upon our Slaves below , Who ( but for them ) did ne're such tortures know . Flay men alive , then forth their Bowels tear , Women rip up with Child , and on their Spear Mount their young Infants , while in blood they sprawl , The Catholics way to quiet them that Bawl ; Cities Consume with fire , Ravish Maid and Wife , Destroy by Poison , Pistol , Burnings , Knife , With thousand other ways to End their hated Life . But what is best of all : when they have done , They call this holy work : most Christian ------ Acted from pure zeal , and love so mild , Makes them as guiltless as the Unborn Child ; Two Ave-marys , and one Pater-Nos ------ Will make amends for all , and quit the Cost They'r daring sinners , of the Popes first Rate , With God himself they will Equivocate ------ By Breaden Gods they can Absolve a Lie ------ Nay by the Mass they dare do more than I , Not Tremble at , but mock the Deity . ------ Then cease to murmur , they shall bear the Bell For Damn'd Designs , and PLOTS that outdoes Hell . The Jesuits speak their merits . Most Holy Father , we do much admire Your weighty Goodness , and your Reverend Sire , Whose helping hand does for us turn the Scale , By him we have , and do , and shall prevail ; 'Tis not Heavens Power that shall frustrate this Most Brave design , which in the MEAL-TUB is ; Nor Presbyterians save their hated Throats , Now at the last , by a Damn'd telltale Oats . If Hell ( for Heaven we matter not ) Conceal This Blessed Intrigue , by all our Gods the MEAL Shall have high honour , on our Altars that Made into Gods be worshipped smoking hight . This matchless Treason , makes it holy all ------ White as from Tower scrapped , or Westward Hall ; This wonder-working Euch'rist shall do more Than Jesuits Powder , Pensioner , or Whore , Or all the Baffled Plots we e're Contriv'd before , 'Twill make the Herreticks all aghast to see Themselves the Plotters , murdered Legally . And make us fat with Laughing , how they will Divided fallen and one another Kill : ------ 'Tis holy sport to see their blood run down In every Channel of the Burned Town , While Changeling Robin , Bugbear in the City , Die the Green Ribbons Read ; by Hell that's pretty : Then shall that Mote , in Northern eye be sped , After Exile call'd back to loose his head . But these are scraps of what our TUB contains , And do these Coxcombs , with their addled Brains , Think e're to weigh us down with Ale and Grains ? No Punies know , your Reeling throng's outdone , Wee'l make all England stagger e're 't be Long : But talking's Idle , let's to actium come , And strike the stroke , may Ruin Christendom . Sir William Waller to Col. Mansell . See Mansell where that Damned hellish Crew , Are plotting Murders , and begin with you ; See heaven discovers unto thee and I Their horrid Treasons , hellbred Villainy , Couched in that pacquet brought by Willoughby . O Blessed God! whose mercies infinite Do yet preserve us from Eternal Night ; It's thou alone whose heavenly goodness still Defends our Lives ( almost ) against our will , From these vile Plotters , Miscreants of Room , Bloodthirsty Villains , Pests of Christendom . Direct me Heaven to take them in their toil , And all their Treasons , and their plottings spoil . Let's in among them , Mansel , heres my hand , I'le loose my life to save my native Land. 'Tis done , says Mansel brave Sir William ; I In such a cause with you am proud to die . We'll make those Vermin know , we scorn their rage , Our nobler Souls dares Rome and Hell engage . And if such manhood Reigneth in us two , What can't the Courage of our English doe ? But Ruin all its Foes , when once provoked thereto . Let's search that Pesthouse , where the Midwife's bred Who brings Rome's Bastards and their Plots to bed , Methinks it looks , as if the Tower Beasts Had there some Prey on which they often feast . 'Tis there my Lady meets her trusty Steer ; Some Newgate-Birds and Sir Examiner . There's Stars among them whence young Tycho drew The Plots good fortune , but his own not knew ; See how the Whores of either Sexes Tug , While the Grand Bawd sits Brooding on the TUB , We'll turn the Bottom upward ere we go , I'le lay my Life there's Treason at his Toe . So off they fetch him , with his Triple Crown , And threw the Crosier , and the MEAL [ - ] TUB down ; Whence came such stuff the Devil , frighted , swore , He never saw such Princely stuff before , The West must yield the Belt unto the Nore . Thus England once more is delivered from Rome's Rogues abroad , and Plotters here at home : Stand on your Guard , now hold yourselves awake , Lest their next Plot ( you careless ) Napping take . Respice & Cave . FINIS . Printed for the Loyal Protestant , at the Sign of the True Eng - lishman in Great Britain , Nov. 11. 1679. 