PATRICK O'NEAL , Or , the Irishman's Description of a Man of War. O you sons of Hibernia , who're snug on dry land , Round your sparkling turf fires , with whiskey in hand , Drink a health to la ma fe and think on the boys , Who're fighting your battles through tempest and noise ; Oh attend to my ditty it's true I declare ! Such fwimmings and linkings will make you all stare , Such storms , squibs , and crackers , all whiz'd at my tail , Since the press gang laid hold of poor Patrick O'Neal . O it was on April the first I set off like a fool , From Kilkenny to Dublin to see Laurence Tool , My mother's third cousin who often wrote down , For to come and to see how he florish'd in town ; But scarce had I set my foot in that terrible place , When a spalpeen came and stared in my face , He called to a pressgang who came without fail , And soon neck and crap carried poor Patrick O'Neal . They scampered away as they thought with a prize , Taking me for a sailo [ r ] , you see , in disguise , But a terrible blunder they made in their strife , For I ne'er saw the sea nor a ship in my life ; Then straight to a Tender they made me repair , But of tenderness devil a morsel was there ! Och ! I raved , stamped , and cursed , but it did not avail , Por they would not let me go , Oh poor Patrick O'Neal . The next morn from Dublin they sailed with their prey , I was half starv'd and sea sick the rest of the way , Not a mile stone I saw not a house nor a bed , It was all water and sky till we came to Spithead ; Then they call'd up all hands , hands and feet soon obey'd , Oh I wished myself at home digging paraties with a spade , For the first sighed I saw caused my spirits to fail , It a big swimming castle for Patrick O'Neal . O this terrible monster rolled about in the tide , And two great rows of teeth were stuck fast in his side , They bid me to mount and desired me to keep , A fast hold with my trotters for fear I should slip ; So I let go with my hands to hold fast by my toes , But the ship gave a reel and so down my head goes , I fell plump into the water and splash'd like a whale , Till pretty well pickled was Patrick O'Neal . With a great swell of laughter they hoist me in , To the huge wooden world full of riot and din , What strings and what pullies attracted my eye , And how large were the sheets that were hung out to dry ; It seem'd Noah's ark , stuff'd with different guests , Hogs , pedlars , geese , sailors , and all other beasts , Some drank bladders of gin , and some pitchers of ale , While some sat and laugh'd at poor Patrick O'Neal . Then a rough mouth'd rapscallian on deck did advance , So hoarse he whistled which made them all prance , Up the ropes like monkeys some ran , and some I declare , Like gibbers or rope dancers hung in the air ; Then they clapped stick in the capstern , as I afterwards found Where a chap sat and fifed while the twirled him round , So the ship raised her anchor , spread her wings and set sail , With a freight of life lumber and Patrick O'Neal . Then to go down below I expressed a great wish , Where they live under water like so many fish , I was clapped in a mess with some more of the crew , They call'd it banyan day ------ so gave me burgoo ; For a bed , I'd a sack hung as high as my chin , They call'd it a hammock and bid me jump in , I took a great leap but my footing was frail , For clane over canted was Patrick O'Neal . The devil a wink could I sleep all the night , And awoke the next morning in a terrible fright , Up hammocks , down chests , they began for to bawl , Here's a Frenchman in sighed , sure ! says I , is that all ? Then to a gun I was station'd , they cry'd with and oath , To pull of his breeches and unmuzzle his mouth , They took off the apron that cover'd his tail , And his lading strings gave to poor Patrick O'Neal . Then we haul'd up our large window shutters with speed And run out our bull dogs of true British breed , Then the captain cried England and Ireland my boys , When he said Ireland my heart made a noise ; Then the noise of our guns did the Frenchmen defy , They clapped fire on his back , and bid him let fly , While the creature gave mouth I held fast by the tail , But he kicked and run over poor Patrick O'Neal . Thus we rattled away , by my soul , hob a nob , Till the French gave up as he thought a bad job , Then to tie him behind a large cord they did bring , And we led him along like a pig in a string ; So home to old England we drag'd the French boy , Oh! the sighed of the land made me sea sick for joy , Then they made a fresh peace when the war grew too stale , And set all hands adrift with poor Patrick O'Neal . So now on dry land a safe course I can steer , The cat-head , cat-block , or boatswain's cat I don't fear , Whilstt there's shot in the locker I'll sing I'll be bound , And Saturday Night shall last all the week round , But if peace grows too stale and war calls amain , By the pipers of Limster I'll venture again , I'll make another dry voyage and bring home such a tale , That you'll laugh till you cry at poor Patrick O'Neal . Printed and Sold by J. PITTS , 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . PRICE ------ ONE PENNY . PATRICK O'NEAL , Or , the Irishman's Description of a Man of War. O you sons of Hibernia , who're snug on dry land , Round your sparkling turf fires , with whiskey in hand , Drink a health to la ma fe and think on the boys , Who're fighting your battles through tempest and noise ; Oh attend to my ditty it's true I declare ! Such fwimmings and linkings will make you all stare , Such storms , squibs , and crackers , all whiz'd at my tail , Since the press gang laid hold of poor Patrick O'Neal . O it was on April the first I set off like a fool , From Kilkenny to Dublin to see Laurence Tool , My mother's third cousin who often wrote down , For to come and to see how he florish'd in town ; But scarce had I set my foot in that terrible place , When a spalpeen came and stared in my face , He called to a pressgang who came without fail , And soon neck and crap carried poor Patrick O'Neal . They scampered away as they thought with a prize , Taking me for a sailo [ r ] , you see , in disguise , But a terrible blunder they made in their strife , For I ne'er saw the sea nor a ship in my life ; Then straight to a Tender they made me repair , But of tenderness devil a morsel was there ! Och ! I raved , stamped , and cursed , but it did not avail , Por they would not let me go , Oh poor Patrick O'Neal . The next morn from Dublin they sailed with their prey , I was half starv'd and sea sick the rest of the way , Not a mile stone I saw not a house nor a bed , It was all water and sky till we came to Spithead ; Then they call'd up all hands , hands and feet soon obey'd , Oh I wished myself at home digging paraties with a spade , For the first sighed I saw caused my spirits to fail , It a big swimming castle for Patrick O'Neal . O this terrible monster rolled about in the tide , And two great rows of teeth were stuck fast in his side , They bid me to mount and desired me to keep , A fast hold with my trotters for fear I should slip ; So I let go with my hands to hold fast by my toes , But the ship gave a reel and so down my head goes , I fell plump into the water and splash'd like a whale , Till pretty well pickled was Patrick O'Neal . With a great swell of laughter they hoist me in , To the huge wooden world full of riot and din , What strings and what pullies attracted my eye , And how large were the sheets that were hung out to dry ; It seem'd Noah's ark , stuff'd with different guests , Hogs , pedlars , geese , sailors , and all other beasts , Some drank bladders of gin , and some pitchers of ale , While some sat and laugh'd at poor Patrick O'Neal . Then a rough mouth'd rapscallian on deck did advance , So hoarse he whistled which made them all prance , Up the ropes like monkeys some ran , and some I declare , Like gibbers or rope dancers hung in the air ; Then they clapped stick in the capstern , as I afterwards found Where a chap sat and fifed while the twirled him round , So the ship raised her anchor , spread her wings and set sail , With a freight of life lumber and Patrick O'Neal . Then to go down below I expressed a great wish , Where they live under water like so many fish , I was clapped in a mess with some more of the crew , They call'd it banyan day ------ so gave me burgoo ; For a bed , I'd a sack hung as high as my chin , They call'd it a hammock and bid me jump in , I took a great leap but my footing was frail , For clane over canted was Patrick O'Neal . The devil a wink could I sleep all the night , And awoke the next morning in a terrible fright , Up hammocks , down chests , they began for to bawl , Here's a Frenchman in sighed , sure ! says I , is that all ? Then to a gun I was station'd , they cry'd with and oath , To pull of his breeches and unmuzzle his mouth , They took off the apron that cover'd his tail , And his lading strings gave to poor Patrick O'Neal . Then we haul'd up our large window shutters with speed And run out our bull dogs of true British breed , Then the captain cried England and Ireland my boys , When he said Ireland my heart made a noise ; Then the noise of our guns did the Frenchmen defy , They clapped fire on his back , and bid him let fly , While the creature gave mouth I held fast by the tail , But he kicked and run over poor Patrick O'Neal . Thus we rattled away , by my soul , hob a nob , Till the French gave up as he thought a bad job , Then to tie him behind a large cord they did bring , And we led him along like a pig in a string ; So home to old England we drag'd the French boy , Oh! the sighed of the land made me sea sick for joy , Then they made a fresh peace when the war grew too stale , And set all hands adrift with poor Patrick O'Neal . So now on dry land a safe course I can steer , The cat-head , cat-block , or boatswain's cat I don't fear , Whilstt there's shot in the locker I'll sing I'll be bound , And Saturday Night shall last all the week round , But if peace grows too stale and war calls amain , By the pipers of Limster I'll venture again , I'll make another dry voyage and bring home such a tale , That you'll laugh till you cry at poor Patrick O'Neal . Printed and Sold by J. PITTS , 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . PRICE ------ ONE PENNY . 