Friendly Advice to EXTRAVAGANTS Showing the Vanity of those , Who to themselves are cruel foes , By their delays for to prepare , grim Death he will not long forbear But unawares will give the blow , They'l mourn when they do find it so Tune of , The rich Merchant man . O What a sinful Age is this that we live in , When men delight in extremes , and take a pride in since . Time's wing'd says one and flies : therefore let us be merry , Perhaps this may be our last day , then let us drink our Sherry . It is a motion strange to call for men to drink , But do not say let us go pray , for 'tis high time I think . Instead of good advice they should give one another , They give advice that in a trice they may all virtue smother . Wicked devices now seem to be so common , There's few that do the same eschew , it is forsook by no man , O pity it is then that since should be the fashion , Be sure they do bring shame unto this poor distressed Nation . Who by their wickedness promote the Devils cause , They urge our God to send his Rod , by breaking of his Laws . While yet we leisure have and time for to repent , Make no delay for fear you may into the Grave be sent . Before you are prepar'd and fitted for to die , O then make haste and no time waste repent immediately . It can do you no harm for to repent in time , Many I say are snatched away , and die just in their prime . We have no lease of life , no more than those who died , And met with death who stop'd their breath and would not be deny'd . When death does us assail we cannot him oppose , Certain it is we must not miss the Hour , yet no man knows . It will be very sad for those who die in since , O then take care for death prepare , and think how slack you've been . We shall not always find God will with sinners bear , Then while you may make no delay but for your death prepare . Think not that when you please you shall have time to do it , If you prolong time , you do wrong yourselves ; then now fallen to it . And say not with the wretch let's drink , laugh , and be merry , Time will not stay but flies away , then do not mind your Sherry . But that which will do good to your immortal souls , Mind that alone , and ev'ry one leave quaffing of your Bouls . That drink which now in waste you down your throats do throw , Where drink is scant the same you'l want & crave for ought I know . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery , & T. Passenger . Friendly Advice to EXTRAVAGANTS Showing the Vanity of those , Who to themselves are cruel foes , By their delays for to prepare , grim Death he will not long forbear But unawares will give the blow , They'l mourn when they do find it so Tune of , The rich Merchant man . O What a sinful Age is this that we live in , When men delight in extremes , and take a pride in since . Time's wing'd says one and flies : therefore let us be merry , Perhaps this may be our last day , then let us drink our Sherry . It is a motion strange to call for men to drink , But do not say let us go pray , for 'tis high time I think . Instead of good advice they should give one another , They give advice that in a trice they may all virtue smother . Wicked devices now seem to be so common , There's few that do the same eschew , it is forsook by no man , O pity it is then that since should be the fashion , Be sure they do bring shame unto this poor distressed Nation . Who by their wickedness promote the Devils cause , They urge our God to send his Rod , by breaking of his Laws . While yet we leisure have and time for to repent , Make no delay for fear you may into the Grave be sent . Before you are prepar'd and fitted for to die , O then make haste and no time waste repent immediately . It can do you no harm for to repent in time , Many I say are snatched away , and die just in their prime . We have no lease of life , no more than those who died , And met with death who stop'd their breath and would not be deny'd . When death does us assail we cannot him oppose , Certain it is we must not miss the Hour , yet no man knows . It will be very sad for those who die in since , O then take care for death prepare , and think how slack you've been . We shall not always find God will with sinners bear , Then while you may make no delay but for your death prepare . Think not that when you please you shall have time to do it , If you prolong time , you do wrong yourselves ; then now fallen to it . And say not with the wretch let's drink , laugh , and be merry , Time will not stay but flies away , then do not mind your Sherry . But that which will do good to your immortal souls , Mind that alone , and ev'ry one leave quaffing of your Bouls . That drink which now in waste you down your throats do throw , Where drink is scant the same you'l want & crave for ought I know . Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery , & T. Passenger . 