Women's Work is never done , OR THE CROWN GARLAND , Of Princely Pastime and Mirth , the Woman has the worst of it ; or her Work is never done . The Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . O that I had never been marry [ worser ] since I led a careful life . Things with me are strangely carri [ ed ] now I am become a wife , While that he does take his pleasure , lest he should to ruin run : Here I labour out of measure , women's work is never done . Was I one that e're did slight him , then he might some reason have , But I labour to delight him , ever seek to get and save . Never spending , always sparing lest he should to ruin run ; Mending , making , thus repairing women's work is never done , Here I look to my habitation , While in troubles to and from : There is no Woman in the Nation , does such sorrows undergo : Carding , Spinning , I do my endeavour never resting till the Web is spun , I must at length go to the Weaver , women's work will never be done . He each night does reel and stagger , coming from his drunken Crew , Nay , and over me will swagger , though I all the Work must do . When he in his Chair is sitting , when he calls me then I run , I make him Cordials that are fitting women's work is never done . Ne're had a woman such a wedding , I in sorrows am oppressed , Yet I bring him to his Lodging , where all night he takes his rest ; It is known that he lies fairly , while Eleven , Twelve , or One , I must be up late and early women's work is never done . In the Field I am expected , for to milk my Cattle there , For it must not be neglected , thus I make my constant care . Tho I am both wet and weary , I must to my labour run , Serve my Hog , and tend my Dairy , women's work is never done . If I am from home and hour , I must surely bear the blame . For my Husband he will lower , all the house is out of Frame , I can have but little quiet , for my Daughter and my Son , Calls upon me for their Diet . women's work is never done . FINIS . Women's Work is never done , OR THE CROWN GARLAND , Of Princely Pastime and Mirth , the Woman has the worst of it ; or her Work is never done . The Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . O that I had never been marry [ worser ] since I led a careful life . Things with me are strangely carri [ ed ] now I am become a wife , While that he does take his pleasure , lest he should to ruin run : Here I labour out of measure , women's work is never done . Was I one that e're did slight him , then he might some reason have , But I labour to delight him , ever seek to get and save . Never spending , always sparing lest he should to ruin run ; Mending , making , thus repairing women's work is never done , Here I look to my habitation , While in troubles to and from : There is no Woman in the Nation , does such sorrows undergo : Carding , Spinning , I do my endeavour never resting till the Web is spun , I must at length go to the Weaver , women's work will never be done . He each night does reel and stagger , coming from his drunken Crew , Nay , and over me will swagger , though I all the Work must do . When he in his Chair is sitting , when he calls me then I run , I make him Cordials that are fitting women's work is never done . Ne're had a woman such a wedding , I in sorrows am oppressed , Yet I bring him to his Lodging , where all night he takes his rest ; It is known that he lies fairly , while Eleven , Twelve , or One , I must be up late and early women's work is never done . In the Field I am expected , for to milk my Cattle there , For it must not be neglected , thus I make my constant care . Tho I am both wet and weary , I must to my labour run , Serve my Hog , and tend my Dairy , women's work is never done . If I am from home and hour , I must surely bear the blame . For my Husband he will lower , all the house is out of Frame , I can have but little quiet , for my Daughter and my Son , Calls upon me for their Diet . women's work is never done . FINIS . 