And Excellent New Song Call'd , The slighted Lover , OR , The Scornful Mistress . Tune of , How lovely's a Woman , etc I . O why am I always perplexed in mind , For the more I do love yet the more she's unkind , Though I dote on her still yet no favour can win , For when I do sighs she from me does fling . II Young Cupid but aim with thy piercing love Dart , And make it once touch my fair Mistress's heart , That soon she may know what torment and pain , It is for to love and not be lov'd again . III . Sometime she don't mind all the vows I do make , Though I tell her I love and must die for her sake , Yet she on me will frown and bid me be gone . For a lover she says , she'l never have one . IV. Despairing I lie at her feet , and do crave , That she would bestow a kind look on her slave , Then she gives me a glance that's enough for to kill , Though it pierces my Heart , yet I must love her still . V. O why was I Born to be tortured so By one that wont hold me nor yet let me go , Though her Tongue does deny , yet her Eyes seem to say , Though I bid you be gone , yet idem have you to stay . VI . So thus between hope and despair I do lie , Not knowing whither she'll make me live or die , This her Conquering Charms that has my Heart gain'd And yet she'l not love which creates all my pain . VII . And if that she should have a heart made of stone , Yet this my dear Celia I must have or none , For this her I adore , and this her I do love , This her has my heart , and this hers I must move . VIII . For with her I live , but without her I die , O you Powers above make fair Celia comply , If she once would but give a look that was kind , Then I should have hope's that her heart would be mine . IX . I wait at her Window both early and late , Yet when she looks out still this is my hard fate , She gives me a frown , then away she does go , Not minding the grief I for love undergo . X. By Letters I often have told her I love , With tender expressions her heart for to move , But alas all in vain for she'll give no reply , Altho' her true Lover does languish and die . XI . O fair one consider a Lover that's true , Who Vows does declare he never lov'd none but you , Then soften her heart O you powers above , That she may once know what it is for to love . XII . Then take my last lines that I ever shall write , Oh send me relief or you kill me this Night , If you love I am blessed , but if not then adieu , Yet fair one Remember 'twas for love of you . Printed and Sold by R. Liford . And Excellent New Song Call'd , The slighted Lover , OR , The Scornful Mistress . Tune of , How lovely's a Woman , etc I . O why am I always perplexed in mind , For the more I do love yet the more she's unkind , Though I dote on her still yet no favour can win , For when I do sighs she from me does fling . II Young Cupid but aim with thy piercing love Dart , And make it once touch my fair Mistress's heart , That soon she may know what torment and pain , It is for to love and not be lov'd again . III . Sometime she don't mind all the vows I do make , Though I tell her I love and must die for her sake , Yet she on me will frown and bid me be gone . For a lover she says , she'l never have one . IV. Despairing I lie at her feet , and do crave , That she would bestow a kind look on her slave , Then she gives me a glance that's enough for to kill , Though it pierces my Heart , yet I must love her still . V. O why was I Born to be tortured so By one that wont hold me nor yet let me go , Though her Tongue does deny , yet her Eyes seem to say , Though I bid you be gone , yet idem have you to stay . VI . So thus between hope and despair I do lie , Not knowing whither she'll make me live or die , This her Conquering Charms that has my Heart gain'd And yet she'l not love which creates all my pain . VII . And if that she should have a heart made of stone , Yet this my dear Celia I must have or none , For this her I adore , and this her I do love , This her has my heart , and this hers I must move . VIII . For with her I live , but without her I die , O you Powers above make fair Celia comply , If she once would but give a look that was kind , Then I should have hope's that her heart would be mine . IX . I wait at her Window both early and late , Yet when she looks out still this is my hard fate , She gives me a frown , then away she does go , Not minding the grief I for love undergo . X. By Letters I often have told her I love , With tender expressions her heart for to move , But alas all in vain for she'll give no reply , Altho' her true Lover does languish and die . XI . O fair one consider a Lover that's true , Who Vows does declare he never lov'd none but you , Then soften her heart O you powers above , That she may once know what it is for to love . XII . Then take my last lines that I ever shall write , Oh send me relief or you kill me this Night , If you love I am blessed , but if not then adieu , Yet fair one Remember 'twas for love of you . Printed and Sold by R. Liford . 