The Mistaken LOVER ; OR , The supposed Ungrateful Creature , appears a True Pattern of LOYALTY . Alas ! in vain he did Complain , and counted her his Foe ; Concluding she would Cruel be , but it was nothing so . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . This may be Printed , R . P O so Ungrateful a Creature , ne'r could I thought you to be , First to abuse my good Nature , laugh at my Simplicity : You above all , had least reason , first to abuse my poor heart , But if another had done it , you ought to have taken my part . Curse of your cunning proceeding , curse of your private Amour , While my poor heart lies a bleeding , may you be double cursed o're : Was you but kind as you're cruel , then you may talk of a bliss , But you preserve me for Fuel , Oh what a Tyrant is this ! You that my Torment invented , proving the cause of my grief , May you in Dreams be tormented , never obtaining Relief : Languishing like one forsaken , drowned in sorrowful tears , Evermore when you awaken , haunted with troops of new fears . Tho' in disdain you forsake me , seeing my joys are increas'd , 'Tis not your Frowns that shall make me ever repine in the least 'Tis not a true Lovers duty , such a hard heart to adore , I'le never dote on your Beauty , since there is many in store . When he had made this Oration , then the young Damsel drew near , Not in a furious Passion , but like a Lover most dear : Why dost thou count me Disloyal , this makes my very heart ache , Might it be put to the trial , Love , I would die for thy sake . How could you Curse me , that never proved once false to my Love , Making my constant endeavour , everything to remove , Which might thy Happiness hinder ; this is the truth of my heart , If I have been and Offender , then let me suffer the smart . Love , I cannot be so Fickle , she in soft Language replies , While many tears they did trickle , down from her beautiful eyes : I that have never offended , you judge me guilty to stand , Oh that my sorrows were ended , by the most fatalest hand . Hearing her sorrowful Ditty , and that her Love it was pure , Then he was moved with pity , and could no longer endure . Then in the purest perfection , sorrows was turned to Bliss , Sealing her perfect protection , with many a tender sweet kiss . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms with in Aldgate . The Mistaken LOVER ; OR , The supposed Ungrateful Creature , appears a True Pattern of LOYALTY . Alas ! in vain he did Complain , and counted her his Foe ; Concluding she would Cruel be , but it was nothing so . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . This may be Printed , R . P O so Ungrateful a Creature , ne'r could I thought you to be , First to abuse my good Nature , laugh at my Simplicity : You above all , had least reason , first to abuse my poor heart , But if another had done it , you ought to have taken my part . Curse of your cunning proceeding , curse of your private Amour , While my poor heart lies a bleeding , may you be double cursed o're : Was you but kind as you're cruel , then you may talk of a bliss , But you preserve me for Fuel , Oh what a Tyrant is this ! You that my Torment invented , proving the cause of my grief , May you in Dreams be tormented , never obtaining Relief : Languishing like one forsaken , drowned in sorrowful tears , Evermore when you awaken , haunted with troops of new fears . Tho' in disdain you forsake me , seeing my joys are increas'd , 'Tis not your Frowns that shall make me ever repine in the least 'Tis not a true Lovers duty , such a hard heart to adore , I'le never dote on your Beauty , since there is many in store . When he had made this Oration , then the young Damsel drew near , Not in a furious Passion , but like a Lover most dear : Why dost thou count me Disloyal , this makes my very heart ache , Might it be put to the trial , Love , I would die for thy sake . How could you Curse me , that never proved once false to my Love , Making my constant endeavour , everything to remove , Which might thy Happiness hinder ; this is the truth of my heart , If I have been and Offender , then let me suffer the smart . Love , I cannot be so Fickle , she in soft Language replies , While many tears they did trickle , down from her beautiful eyes : I that have never offended , you judge me guilty to stand , Oh that my sorrows were ended , by the most fatalest hand . Hearing her sorrowful Ditty , and that her Love it was pure , Then he was moved with pity , and could no longer endure . Then in the purest perfection , sorrows was turned to Bliss , Sealing her perfect protection , with many a tender sweet kiss . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms with in Aldgate . 