THE Woody Queresters : OR , The BIRDS HARMONY . When Birds could speak , & Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with pain , Did to each other thus complain : To the Tune of , The Bird-catcher's Delight , etc O ! says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young ones feed , And I myself do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow , on her nest , I lov'd a Lass but it was in jest ; And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a vow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin , and thus he said , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Maid ; Her beauty kindled such a spark , That on my breast I bear the mark . Then said the Lark upon the grass , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Lass ; But she would not hear her true Love sing , Though he had a voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in black . Then said the bonny Nightingale , Thus I must end my mournful tale , While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast against a thorn . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I ne'r shall be myself again ; I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my tail . Then said the pritty-colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is fled away , And in remembrance of my Dear , A feather of every sort I wear . Then said the leather-winged Batt , Mind but my tale , and i'll tell you what Is the cause that I do fly by night , Because I lost my Heart's Delight . Then said the Green-bird as she flew , I loved one that prov'd untrue ; And since she can no more be seen , Like a lovesick Maid I turn to green . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My Love she is fled , but I would not follow , And now upon the chimney high , I sing forth my poor malady . Oh! says the Owl , my Love is gone , That I so much did dote upon : I know not how my Love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the meadows and the skies , But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no comfort bring , For oftentimes I at midnight Record my Love and Heart's Delight . The Canary-bird she then comes in , To tell her tale she does begin ; I am of my dear Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Chafinch then begins to speak , For love , quoth she , my heart will break ; I grieve so for my only Dear , I sing but two months in the year . Then quoth the Magpie , I was crossed In love , and now my Dear is lost ; And wanting of my Heart's Delight , I mourn for him in black and white . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in black we go , It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a rage , And nothing could his wrath assuage , So in the woods he would not dwell , But spends his time in lonesome cell . Thus you have herd the Birds complaint , Taking delight in their restraint ; Let this to all a Pattern be For to delight in Constancy . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Book sellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . THE Woody Queresters : OR , The BIRDS HARMONY . When Birds could speak , & Women they Had neither good nor bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with pain , Did to each other thus complain : To the Tune of , The Bird-catcher's Delight , etc O ! says the Cuckoo , loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young ones feed , And I myself do stand in need . Then says the Sparrow , on her nest , I lov'd a Lass but it was in jest ; And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a vow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin , and thus he said , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Maid ; Her beauty kindled such a spark , That on my breast I bear the mark . Then said the Lark upon the grass , I lov'd once a well-favour'd Lass ; But she would not hear her true Love sing , Though he had a voice would please a King . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in black . Then said the bonny Nightingale , Thus I must end my mournful tale , While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast against a thorn . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then , I ne'r shall be myself again ; I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my tail . Then said the pritty-colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is fled away , And in remembrance of my Dear , A feather of every sort I wear . Then said the leather-winged Batt , Mind but my tale , and i'll tell you what Is the cause that I do fly by night , Because I lost my Heart's Delight . Then said the Green-bird as she flew , I loved one that prov'd untrue ; And since she can no more be seen , Like a lovesick Maid I turn to green . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My Love she is fled , but I would not follow , And now upon the chimney high , I sing forth my poor malady . Oh! says the Owl , my Love is gone , That I so much did dote upon : I know not how my Love to follow , But after her I hoop and hollow . Then says the Lapwing as she flies , I search the meadows and the skies , But cannot find my Love again , So about I fly in deadly pain . Then said the Thrush , I squeak and sing , Which does to me no comfort bring , For oftentimes I at midnight Record my Love and Heart's Delight . The Canary-bird she then comes in , To tell her tale she does begin ; I am of my dear Love bereft , So I have my own Country left . The Chafinch then begins to speak , For love , quoth she , my heart will break ; I grieve so for my only Dear , I sing but two months in the year . Then quoth the Magpie , I was crossed In love , and now my Dear is lost ; And wanting of my Heart's Delight , I mourn for him in black and white . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in black we go , It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . The Bulfinch he was in a rage , And nothing could his wrath assuage , So in the woods he would not dwell , But spends his time in lonesome cell . Thus you have herd the Birds complaint , Taking delight in their restraint ; Let this to all a Pattern be For to delight in Constancy . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Book sellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 