Love without Measure . OR , The Youngman's Delight , and the Maidens Joy . This young man woo'd a Damosel fair , And call'd her his joy and dear , But she was coy , as Maids will be , And said he came with flattery . But he did protest it was not so , And at last brought her unto his bow : Now they live in love , in peace , and joy , And she very fain would have a boy . To a rare new tune , called , Du-Vals Delight LAte in the Country as I was walking Viewing the Meadows so fresh and green There I was aware of two Lovers atalking Under a bush , but could hardly be seen , I laid me down and I listen'd a while , To hear if the man could the maiden beguile : But the maid she was crafty , witty and loyal Although many times he put her to th' trial , And in the conclusion thus he did her woo : My dear love , my joy , and my honey , No tongue can express how dear I love thee Thou shalt never want for love nor money If thou wilt but set thy affection on me , For all the fair beauty's that ever I saw I still must submit and yield to thy Law ; Then unto thy dearest friend be not so cruel , For thou art my comfort , my joy , & my jewel , And so I shall count thee until I die . Maid . The Damosel unto him straightway reply'd , Is it for this you hither me brought ? Your suit at this time it must be deny'd , I am not a bird that's so easily caugh For marriage I see is a costly name ; Beside ( quoth she ) i'm too young to marry , This seven years I may very well tarry , For sorrow and troubles come fast enough on . A maiden ( quoth she ) knows but little sorrow , Before that in wedlock band she is tied ; She has very little to buy or to borrow , & many times meets with a cross man beside : Which is the worst grief a woman can have , She'd better to be set quick in her grave Than to have a man that is peevish & froward , For men now a days do prove so untoward , 'Tis hard for a maiden in them to put trust . Man. THese words my dearest that you have spoken Pierces the tender sick heart of mine , O let true love by you be known , Though I am the bark , and you are the vine , Altho' I am poor and thou art rich , Slight me not I thee beseech : No woman yet that ever was gained Shall be more brave and better maintained : What I speak to thee I will perform . You say that marriage is a hard matter , And those that are single live best at ease ; But with you I do scorn to cog or yet flatter , I will speak my mind then say what you please : She that is single I know she'd be wed , For it is and honour to obtain marriagebed Therefore my dearest doe not abhor me , Thy mother did yield to a man before thee , Then why wilt thou not do as she has done ? Maid . What though my mother did make and adventure It was a great hazard the which she did run , She had her fortune which God he had sent her , And he unto her prov'd a right honest man : But such nowadays are hard for to find , Men can so dissemble and turn with the wind , They'l speak a maid fair and vow they love her : So i'm resolved a maiden to die . Some men now a days have sweethearts a dozen And in the conclusion they'l marry with none , They make it their trade poor Girls to cozen , For ought I know you may be such a one : Your tongue is so tipped & your words are so fair Your countenance plainly shows what you are ; That you have been trading with girls i' that City And wrong'd many maids , the more is the pity , If you be a Bachelor I am mista'en . Man. Oh! you'r mistaken much in this matter , The words you speak I know you can't prove , But with you I do scorn to cog or yet flatter , Nor never did try if any could love , But any but thee I vow and do swear , Then prithee be merry and cast away care : Be not so fickle , but look on me blithely , For I am a Lad that is lusty and lively . I'le hug thee and kiss thee ten times of a night i'le promise no riches nor yet no great treasure , But all that I have thou shalt it command , Altho' i've but little my love's beyond measure , Then prithee dear grant me thy heart & hand : Then why should we make any longer delay , But unto the Church now let us away ; The Bridemen and maids they for us do tarry , Therefore my dear tell me when thou [ ' ] lt marry , if I go without thee I surely shall die . Maid . If that I thought you did not dissemble I quickly should yield to what you request , But men's tongues I see can run so nimble , it's hard to trust any I do protes They can so cologue both flatter and lie , With fair pretences a maiden to try , They'l kiss them & hug them until they've wone um And then they'l forsake um when they've undone um So 'tis good to be careful who they do trust Man. My fairest and dearest , if e're I forsake thee , I wish that nothing may ever thrive with me , Come wealth or woe , no sorrow shall make me , Or cause me once to prove disloyal to thee : Then prithee look cheerful and take a sweet kiss In token of love , no harm is in this : Let not fickle fortune no longer you hinder , From a good motion to keep us asunder , But let our hearts be joined in one . The maiden she hearing what he had spoken , She had no power to say him nay , But gave him a kiss in love as a token , As he unto Church should take her away . Where they was married I after did hear ; Now she calls him honey , he calls her dear , Tho' long , at last this Youngman did gain her , Now in civil habit he bravely maintains her , Let this be a pattern for Lovers so true . Printed for W Thackery , and TO Passenger . Love without Measure . OR , The Youngman's Delight , and the Maidens Joy . This young man woo'd a Damosel fair , And call'd her his joy and dear , But she was coy , as Maids will be , And said he came with flattery . But he did protest it was not so , And at last brought her unto his bow : Now they live in love , in peace , and joy , And she very fain would have a boy . To a rare new tune , called , Du-Vals Delight LAte in the Country as I was walking Viewing the Meadows so fresh and green There I was aware of two Lovers atalking Under a bush , but could hardly be seen , I laid me down and I listen'd a while , To hear if the man could the maiden beguile : But the maid she was crafty , witty and loyal Although many times he put her to th' trial , And in the conclusion thus he did her woo : My dear love , my joy , and my honey , No tongue can express how dear I love thee Thou shalt never want for love nor money If thou wilt but set thy affection on me , For all the fair beauty's that ever I saw I still must submit and yield to thy Law ; Then unto thy dearest friend be not so cruel , For thou art my comfort , my joy , & my jewel , And so I shall count thee until I die . Maid . The Damosel unto him straightway reply'd , Is it for this you hither me brought ? Your suit at this time it must be deny'd , I am not a bird that's so easily caugh For marriage I see is a costly name ; Beside ( quoth she ) i'm too young to marry , This seven years I may very well tarry , For sorrow and troubles come fast enough on . A maiden ( quoth she ) knows but little sorrow , Before that in wedlock band she is tied ; She has very little to buy or to borrow , & many times meets with a cross man beside : Which is the worst grief a woman can have , She'd better to be set quick in her grave Than to have a man that is peevish & froward , For men now a days do prove so untoward , 'Tis hard for a maiden in them to put trust . Man. THese words my dearest that you have spoken Pierces the tender sick heart of mine , O let true love by you be known , Though I am the bark , and you are the vine , Altho' I am poor and thou art rich , Slight me not I thee beseech : No woman yet that ever was gained Shall be more brave and better maintained : What I speak to thee I will perform . You say that marriage is a hard matter , And those that are single live best at ease ; But with you I do scorn to cog or yet flatter , I will speak my mind then say what you please : She that is single I know she'd be wed , For it is and honour to obtain marriagebed Therefore my dearest doe not abhor me , Thy mother did yield to a man before thee , Then why wilt thou not do as she has done ? Maid . What though my mother did make and adventure It was a great hazard the which she did run , She had her fortune which God he had sent her , And he unto her prov'd a right honest man : But such nowadays are hard for to find , Men can so dissemble and turn with the wind , They'l speak a maid fair and vow they love her : So i'm resolved a maiden to die . Some men now a days have sweethearts a dozen And in the conclusion they'l marry with none , They make it their trade poor Girls to cozen , For ought I know you may be such a one : Your tongue is so tipped & your words are so fair Your countenance plainly shows what you are ; That you have been trading with girls i' that City And wrong'd many maids , the more is the pity , If you be a Bachelor I am mista'en . Man. Oh! you'r mistaken much in this matter , The words you speak I know you can't prove , But with you I do scorn to cog or yet flatter , Nor never did try if any could love , But any but thee I vow and do swear , Then prithee be merry and cast away care : Be not so fickle , but look on me blithely , For I am a Lad that is lusty and lively . I'le hug thee and kiss thee ten times of a night i'le promise no riches nor yet no great treasure , But all that I have thou shalt it command , Altho' i've but little my love's beyond measure , Then prithee dear grant me thy heart & hand : Then why should we make any longer delay , But unto the Church now let us away ; The Bridemen and maids they for us do tarry , Therefore my dear tell me when thou [ ' ] lt marry , if I go without thee I surely shall die . Maid . If that I thought you did not dissemble I quickly should yield to what you request , But men's tongues I see can run so nimble , it's hard to trust any I do protes They can so cologue both flatter and lie , With fair pretences a maiden to try , They'l kiss them & hug them until they've wone um And then they'l forsake um when they've undone um So 'tis good to be careful who they do trust Man. My fairest and dearest , if e're I forsake thee , I wish that nothing may ever thrive with me , Come wealth or woe , no sorrow shall make me , Or cause me once to prove disloyal to thee : Then prithee look cheerful and take a sweet kiss In token of love , no harm is in this : Let not fickle fortune no longer you hinder , From a good motion to keep us asunder , But let our hearts be joined in one . The maiden she hearing what he had spoken , She had no power to say him nay , But gave him a kiss in love as a token , As he unto Church should take her away . Where they was married I after did hear ; Now she calls him honey , he calls her dear , Tho' long , at last this Youngman did gain her , Now in civil habit he bravely maintains her , Let this be a pattern for Lovers so true . Printed for W Thackery , and TO Passenger . 