The Miser mump'd of his Gold ; OR , The merry Frolic of a Lady of Pleasure in Bartholomew-Fair ; Showing , how she fed the Usurer with big , but made him pay for the Sauce . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . A Lady of Pleasure in Bartholomew-Fair Was powder'd and painted , nay dressed in her Hair ; In such rich Apparel she then did appear As if her Estate was ten thousand a Year : Of each huffing Gallant she would make and Ass , She fed them with big , but they paid for the Sauce . Among all the rest I will mention but one , A Miser , who is in fair London well known ; Yet I will forbear now to mention his Name , Because I am willing to keep free from blame : Of this wretched Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . 'Tis known this old Miser he seldom did eat From Years-end to Years-end a meal of good mea Except it was given him freely , and then He would eat as much as five labouring Men ; He hapn'd to meet with this beautiful Lass Who fed him with big , but he paid for the sauce . It hapn'd this Miser went over the Rounds And under his Arm he had sevenscore Pounds : The which he was going that Morning to lend : This Lady she met him and said My dear Friend Your former good Nature lays claim to a Glass : She found Wine and big , but he paid for the sauce . The Miser he told her he dare not drink Wine Nor any such liquours until he had Din'd : Quoth we , since she here did so luckily meet , I now am resolved to give thee a trea Away to her chamber they straightways did pass , She fed him with pig , but he paid for the sauce . A Dinner she straightways provided with speed , The Miser he like and old Farmer did feed , Concluding that he should have nothing to pay , But to eat and drink , aye and so go his way : The Lady supply'd him with Glass after Glass , She found him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady supply'd him with Liquour good store , 'Till he was not able to drink anymore ; Full Bowls of Canary he had drank so deep , That all of a sudden he fell fast asleep : Thus of this Old Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . She shook him , and finding that he would not wake , The Sevenscore Pound she did presently take ; Then locking the Miser up in and old Chest , This brings me , in short , to the Cream of the Jes Thus her waggish purpose was soon brought to pass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now he having told her before where he dwelled , In this subtle manner she cunningly dealt ; Straight calling a Porter to finish this strife , The Miser she sent in a Chest to his Wife , Without e're a Penny in Silver , alas ! Thus she fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady she gave him two Shillings at first , And bid him be sure he was true to his Trust , Now for to deliver his Burden with Care , For why I must tell you it is Merchant's Ware : And thus the poor Miser was made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now just as the Porter came to his own Door , The Miser awak'd , and loudly did roar ; The honest poor Porter was frightn'd alack ! Supposing that he had Old Neck at his back : But it was the wretched Old Miser , alas ! Who was fed with big , but he paid for the Sauce . The Wife she was frightn'd this Wretch to behold , The Miser stark-mad for his Silver and Gold ; But all was in vain , tho' he search'd Smithfield round , The Lady of Pleasure was not to be found : Thus of and Old Miser she made a mere Ass , She gave him roast big , but he paid for the Sauce . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Miser mump'd of his Gold ; OR , The merry Frolic of a Lady of Pleasure in Bartholomew-Fair ; Showing , how she fed the Usurer with big , but made him pay for the Sauce . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . A Lady of Pleasure in Bartholomew-Fair Was powder'd and painted , nay dressed in her Hair ; In such rich Apparel she then did appear As if her Estate was ten thousand a Year : Of each huffing Gallant she would make and Ass , She fed them with big , but they paid for the Sauce . Among all the rest I will mention but one , A Miser , who is in fair London well known ; Yet I will forbear now to mention his Name , Because I am willing to keep free from blame : Of this wretched Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . 'Tis known this old Miser he seldom did eat From Years-end to Years-end a meal of good mea Except it was given him freely , and then He would eat as much as five labouring Men ; He hapn'd to meet with this beautiful Lass Who fed him with big , but he paid for the sauce . It hapn'd this Miser went over the Rounds And under his Arm he had sevenscore Pounds : The which he was going that Morning to lend : This Lady she met him and said My dear Friend Your former good Nature lays claim to a Glass : She found Wine and big , but he paid for the sauce . The Miser he told her he dare not drink Wine Nor any such liquours until he had Din'd : Quoth we , since she here did so luckily meet , I now am resolved to give thee a trea Away to her chamber they straightways did pass , She fed him with pig , but he paid for the sauce . A Dinner she straightways provided with speed , The Miser he like and old Farmer did feed , Concluding that he should have nothing to pay , But to eat and drink , aye and so go his way : The Lady supply'd him with Glass after Glass , She found him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady supply'd him with Liquour good store , 'Till he was not able to drink anymore ; Full Bowls of Canary he had drank so deep , That all of a sudden he fell fast asleep : Thus of this Old Miser she made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . She shook him , and finding that he would not wake , The Sevenscore Pound she did presently take ; Then locking the Miser up in and old Chest , This brings me , in short , to the Cream of the Jes Thus her waggish purpose was soon brought to pass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now he having told her before where he dwelled , In this subtle manner she cunningly dealt ; Straight calling a Porter to finish this strife , The Miser she sent in a Chest to his Wife , Without e're a Penny in Silver , alas ! Thus she fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . This Lady she gave him two Shillings at first , And bid him be sure he was true to his Trust , Now for to deliver his Burden with Care , For why I must tell you it is Merchant's Ware : And thus the poor Miser was made a mere Ass , She fed him with big , but he paid for the Sauce . Now just as the Porter came to his own Door , The Miser awak'd , and loudly did roar ; The honest poor Porter was frightn'd alack ! Supposing that he had Old Neck at his back : But it was the wretched Old Miser , alas ! Who was fed with big , but he paid for the Sauce . The Wife she was frightn'd this Wretch to behold , The Miser stark-mad for his Silver and Gold ; But all was in vain , tho' he search'd Smithfield round , The Lady of Pleasure was not to be found : Thus of and Old Miser she made a mere Ass , She gave him roast big , but he paid for the Sauce . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 