THE Humours of RAG-FAIR , OR , THE Countryman's description of their several Trades and Callings . LAST Week in Lent I came to Town , And having a leisure hour , I went to see his Majesty's Crown , And the Lions in the Tower , But losing my way I chanced to stray , Through a lane of secondhand tailors , Till stopped with surprise at the noise of the cries , Of a hundred different dealers . Do you want a coat or a vest young man , To dress in this good Easter , Here is breeches ( fellow them if you can , ) You shall have them for a taster , A plad banyan , for barber's man , And fustian frocks for bakers , Cheap left off clothes for Spittalfields beaus , And black for Undertakers . Here are ruffled shirts , and cambrick stocks , For young men to lie clean in , With nice tucker'd Helland smocks , And choice of childbed linen . Likewise clean sheeting for folks to lie sweet in , Girls a nice dimitty dicke A good pair of sleeves you may wash when you please , And tack them to a foul smicket . Here are stockings for young women too , Not darn'd above the quarter , With clocks of white , or read or blue , All flourish'd to the garter ; Knit hose for men or boys from ten , With silk for those that strut it , You may have them whole with their own soals , Or neatly darn'd or footed . Come customers who buys my shoes , Or pumps , scarce worse for wearing , I had them a bargain from the meuse , Of a woman who goes a chairing ; Five groats a pair , search all the fair , And see if you can match them , The shops are so nice , they'll have a good price , Although they clout and patch them . Here's choice of periwigs who'll buy ? I'll fell you as cheap as any , You're welcome , sir , to come and try , Beside I shave for a penny . Do you flaxen lack , or a good coal black , With a buckle as strong as wire ? Those left off greys I can surely praise , And warrant them to the buyer . Who buys my felt or carolone ? There's none will fell you cheaper , For Sundays here's a beaver fine , Bought from a broken draper , You may have them large at a small charge , For quaker or for curate ; Lac'd hats for those that are quarter deck'd beaus Ne'er turn'd but once I assure it . All smoking hight a groat a pound , My plain or sweet plumb pudding , The flour was the best in the market found , And all the ingredients good in ; I make it neat and give good weight , My pound is sixteen ounces , Yet ( by the buy ) she tells you a lie , For all she brags and bounces . Here's pancakes in cook's dripping fry'd , I fell them for a penny , They're crisp and brown , and have been try'd , Today by a good many ; My sausages and black puddings please , I speak it without a vapour , For a penny apiece you may have what is nice , And I'm sure you can't dine cheaper . Here's household bred for families large , And stale bred for the city , Come buy all you that have god a charge , Of me that can't outwit you , To you that buys I warrant the size , As my Lord Mayor would have it , I hate words many , I'll bore you a penny , You are welcome to take it or leave it . Here's bacon as sweet as any nut , Or neighbours never trust me , Although they know it was yesterday but , They bought it themselves for rusty , See this how fat , how streaky that , Though cheat you while they are vending , And surely cheat you and ounce in the weight , Yet swear they give you a mending . Here are joints of mutton from Leadenhall , And beef from Honey-lane Market ; I always keep what's prime at stall , Thus the cunning butchers clark it , A prince may eat of my stall fatted meat , Though I lose in each pound a farthing , But pray take care , his stilliards are fair , Or you are surely bit in the bargain . Here is measly pork and vile slink calf , In trays at gully holes selling , I had rather been at home by half , At dinner at my own dwelling ; To fell such meat for folks to eat , 'Tis enough to breed and infection . If such folks were down in our good town , They'd be sent to the house of correction . Here are wondered purging pills , Which Doctor Rock rehearses , Which all the dreadful poison kills , Suck'd in by foul embraces , Such plasters for corns , such powder for worms , Were never before set on trial , Good people who prize the sighed of your eyes , Come purchase my little phial . In Watch-house cage I next did view , A strolling black eyed Susan , Who only took a guinea or two , From a sailor who had to lose them , The impudent whore the justice before , Said in her examination , The money in full she had from a cull , For to please his inclination . Pick pockets too mix'd in the throng , For hard by liv'd their nurse's , Good people when you pass along , I pray take care of your purses , And handkerchiefs for these young thieves , Ne'er hope for absolution , But proceed in since till turn'd off with a grin , At a Tyburn Execution . Then here and there you find a stall , Set up by young beginners ; The houses too are rented all , By publicans and sinners , Walk in sir , here's the Alderman's beer , And a clear Newcastle fire , I'll make you a pot of the best gin hight , Or anything else you require . Some were smoking some at cards , And some are with chaps dealing , Some were civil and some black guards , All people have their failing . I paid of my score and went out of door , Maintaining this opinion , That no price of state beside Britain the great , Hath such a fair in his dominion . London : Printed and Sold in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet-Market . THE Humours of RAG-FAIR , OR , THE Countryman's description of their several Trades and Callings . LAST Week in Lent I came to Town , And having a leisure hour , I went to see his Majesty's Crown , And the Lions in the Tower , But losing my way I chanced to stray , Through a lane of secondhand tailors , Till stopped with surprise at the noise of the cries , Of a hundred different dealers . Do you want a coat or a vest young man , To dress in this good Easter , Here is breeches ( fellow them if you can , ) You shall have them for a taster , A plad banyan , for barber's man , And fustian frocks for bakers , Cheap left off clothes for Spittalfields beaus , And black for Undertakers . Here are ruffled shirts , and cambrick stocks , For young men to lie clean in , With nice tucker'd Helland smocks , And choice of childbed linen . Likewise clean sheeting for folks to lie sweet in , Girls a nice dimitty dicke A good pair of sleeves you may wash when you please , And tack them to a foul smicket . Here are stockings for young women too , Not darn'd above the quarter , With clocks of white , or read or blue , All flourish'd to the garter ; Knit hose for men or boys from ten , With silk for those that strut it , You may have them whole with their own soals , Or neatly darn'd or footed . Come customers who buys my shoes , Or pumps , scarce worse for wearing , I had them a bargain from the meuse , Of a woman who goes a chairing ; Five groats a pair , search all the fair , And see if you can match them , The shops are so nice , they'll have a good price , Although they clout and patch them . Here's choice of periwigs who'll buy ? I'll fell you as cheap as any , You're welcome , sir , to come and try , Beside I shave for a penny . Do you flaxen lack , or a good coal black , With a buckle as strong as wire ? Those left off greys I can surely praise , And warrant them to the buyer . Who buys my felt or carolone ? There's none will fell you cheaper , For Sundays here's a beaver fine , Bought from a broken draper , You may have them large at a small charge , For quaker or for curate ; Lac'd hats for those that are quarter deck'd beaus Ne'er turn'd but once I assure it . All smoking hight a groat a pound , My plain or sweet plumb pudding , The flour was the best in the market found , And all the ingredients good in ; I make it neat and give good weight , My pound is sixteen ounces , Yet ( by the buy ) she tells you a lie , For all she brags and bounces . Here's pancakes in cook's dripping fry'd , I fell them for a penny , They're crisp and brown , and have been try'd , Today by a good many ; My sausages and black puddings please , I speak it without a vapour , For a penny apiece you may have what is nice , And I'm sure you can't dine cheaper . Here's household bred for families large , And stale bred for the city , Come buy all you that have god a charge , Of me that can't outwit you , To you that buys I warrant the size , As my Lord Mayor would have it , I hate words many , I'll bore you a penny , You are welcome to take it or leave it . Here's bacon as sweet as any nut , Or neighbours never trust me , Although they know it was yesterday but , They bought it themselves for rusty , See this how fat , how streaky that , Though cheat you while they are vending , And surely cheat you and ounce in the weight , Yet swear they give you a mending . Here are joints of mutton from Leadenhall , And beef from Honey-lane Market ; I always keep what's prime at stall , Thus the cunning butchers clark it , A prince may eat of my stall fatted meat , Though I lose in each pound a farthing , But pray take care , his stilliards are fair , Or you are surely bit in the bargain . Here is measly pork and vile slink calf , In trays at gully holes selling , I had rather been at home by half , At dinner at my own dwelling ; To fell such meat for folks to eat , 'Tis enough to breed and infection . If such folks were down in our good town , They'd be sent to the house of correction . Here are wondered purging pills , Which Doctor Rock rehearses , Which all the dreadful poison kills , Suck'd in by foul embraces , Such plasters for corns , such powder for worms , Were never before set on trial , Good people who prize the sighed of your eyes , Come purchase my little phial . In Watch-house cage I next did view , A strolling black eyed Susan , Who only took a guinea or two , From a sailor who had to lose them , The impudent whore the justice before , Said in her examination , The money in full she had from a cull , For to please his inclination . Pick pockets too mix'd in the throng , For hard by liv'd their nurse's , Good people when you pass along , I pray take care of your purses , And handkerchiefs for these young thieves , Ne'er hope for absolution , But proceed in since till turn'd off with a grin , At a Tyburn Execution . Then here and there you find a stall , Set up by young beginners ; The houses too are rented all , By publicans and sinners , Walk in sir , here's the Alderman's beer , And a clear Newcastle fire , I'll make you a pot of the best gin hight , Or anything else you require . Some were smoking some at cards , And some are with chaps dealing , Some were civil and some black guards , All people have their failing . I paid of my score and went out of door , Maintaining this opinion , That no price of state beside Britain the great , Hath such a fair in his dominion . London : Printed and Sold in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet-Market . 