BLANKET-FAIR , OR THE History of Temple Street . Being a Relation of the merry Pranks played on the River Thames during the great Frost . To the Tune of Packington's Pound . 1. COme listen a while ( though the Weather be cold ) In your Pockets & Plackets your Hands you may hold . I'll tell you a Story as true as 'tis rare , Of a River turn'd into a Bartholmew Fair . Since old Christmas last There has been such a frost , That the Thames has by half the whole Nation been crossed . O Scullers I pity your fate of Extremes , Each Landman is now become free of the Thames . 2. 'Tis some Lapland Acquaintance of Conjurer Oats , That has ty'd up your Hands & imprison'd your Boats . You know he was ever a friend to the Crew Of all that to Admiral James has been true . Where Skulls once did Row Men walk to and from , But e're four months are ended 'twill hardly be so . Should your hope's of a thaw by this weather be crossed , Your Fortune's would soon be as hard as the Frost . 3. In Roast Beef and Brandy much money is spent In Booths made of Blankets that pay no Ground-rent , With old fashion'd Chimneys the Rooms are secur'd , And the Houses from danger of Fire ensur'd . The chief place you meet Is call'd Temple Street , If you do not believe me , then you may go see't . From the Temple the Students do thither resort , Who were always great Patrons of Revels and sport . 4. The Citizen comes with his Daughter or Wife , And swears he ne'er saw such a sighed in his life : The Prentices starv'd at home for want of Coals To catch them a heat do flock thither in shoals ; While the Country Squire Does stand and admire At the wondrous conjunction of Water and Fire . Strait comes and arch Wag , a young Son of a Whore , And lays the Squires head where his heels were before . 5. The Rotterdam Dutchman with fleet cutting Scates , To pleasure the crowd shows his tricks and his feats , Who like a Ropedancer ( for all his sharp Steels ) His Brains and activity lie in his Heels . Here all things like fate Are in slippery state , From the Sole of the Foot to the Crown of the Pate . While the Rabble in Sledges run giddily round , And nought but a circle of folly is found . 6. Here Damsels are handed like Nymphs in the Bath , By Gentlemen-Ushers with Legs like a Lath ; They slide to a Tune , and cry give me your Hand , When the tottering Fops are scarce able to stand . Then with fear and with care They arrive at the Fair , Where Wenches fell Glasses and cracked Earthen ware ; To show that the World , and the pleasures it brings , Are made up of brittle and slippery things . 7. A Spark of the Bar with his Cane and his Muff , One day went to treat his new rigg'd Kitchinstuff , Let slip from her Gallant , the gay Damsel try'd ( As oft she had done in the Country ) to slide , In the way lay a stump , That with a dam'd thump , She broke both her Shoestrings and crippl'd her Rump . The heat of her Buttocks made such a great thaw , She had like to have drowned the man of the Law . 8. All you that are warm both in Body and Purse , I give you this warning for better or worse , Be not there in the Moonshine , pray take my advice , For slippery things have been done on the Ice . Maids there have been said To loose Maidenhead , And Sparks from full Pockets gone empty to Bed. If their Brains and their Bodies had not been too warm , 'Tis forty to one they had come to less harm . Printed for Charles Corbet , at the Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane . 1684. BLANKET-FAIR , OR THE History of Temple Street . Being a Relation of the merry Pranks played on the River Thames during the great Frost . To the Tune of Packington's Pound . 1. COme listen a while ( though the Weather be cold ) In your Pockets & Plackets your Hands you may hold . I'll tell you a Story as true as 'tis rare , Of a River turn'd into a Bartholmew Fair . Since old Christmas last There has been such a frost , That the Thames has by half the whole Nation been crossed . O Scullers I pity your fate of Extremes , Each Landman is now become free of the Thames . 2. 'Tis some Lapland Acquaintance of Conjurer Oats , That has ty'd up your Hands & imprison'd your Boats . You know he was ever a friend to the Crew Of all that to Admiral James has been true . Where Skulls once did Row Men walk to and from , But e're four months are ended 'twill hardly be so . Should your hope's of a thaw by this weather be crossed , Your Fortune's would soon be as hard as the Frost . 3. In Roast Beef and Brandy much money is spent In Booths made of Blankets that pay no Ground-rent , With old fashion'd Chimneys the Rooms are secur'd , And the Houses from danger of Fire ensur'd . The chief place you meet Is call'd Temple Street , If you do not believe me , then you may go see't . From the Temple the Students do thither resort , Who were always great Patrons of Revels and sport . 4. The Citizen comes with his Daughter or Wife , And swears he ne'er saw such a sighed in his life : The Prentices starv'd at home for want of Coals To catch them a heat do flock thither in shoals ; While the Country Squire Does stand and admire At the wondrous conjunction of Water and Fire . Strait comes and arch Wag , a young Son of a Whore , And lays the Squires head where his heels were before . 5. The Rotterdam Dutchman with fleet cutting Scates , To pleasure the crowd shows his tricks and his feats , Who like a Ropedancer ( for all his sharp Steels ) His Brains and activity lie in his Heels . Here all things like fate Are in slippery state , From the Sole of the Foot to the Crown of the Pate . While the Rabble in Sledges run giddily round , And nought but a circle of folly is found . 6. Here Damsels are handed like Nymphs in the Bath , By Gentlemen-Ushers with Legs like a Lath ; They slide to a Tune , and cry give me your Hand , When the tottering Fops are scarce able to stand . Then with fear and with care They arrive at the Fair , Where Wenches fell Glasses and cracked Earthen ware ; To show that the World , and the pleasures it brings , Are made up of brittle and slippery things . 7. A Spark of the Bar with his Cane and his Muff , One day went to treat his new rigg'd Kitchinstuff , Let slip from her Gallant , the gay Damsel try'd ( As oft she had done in the Country ) to slide , In the way lay a stump , That with a dam'd thump , She broke both her Shoestrings and crippl'd her Rump . The heat of her Buttocks made such a great thaw , She had like to have drowned the man of the Law . 8. All you that are warm both in Body and Purse , I give you this warning for better or worse , Be not there in the Moonshine , pray take my advice , For slippery things have been done on the Ice . Maids there have been said To loose Maidenhead , And Sparks from full Pockets gone empty to Bed. If their Brains and their Bodies had not been too warm , 'Tis forty to one they had come to less harm . Printed for Charles Corbet , at the Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane . 1684. 