The Extravagant YOUTH , OR , And Emblem of PRODIGALITY . Tho' he was stout , he can't get out , in Trouble he'l remain Young-Men be wise , your Freedom prize , bad Company refrain . To the Tune of , King James's Jig ; Or , The Country Farmer . COme listen awhile and I will relate My sad and most dismal deplorable state , For now I am in a most woeful case , Ay running this wild and extravagent raze : When Silks and Satins did me adorn , I said that I was most Nobly Born , Good Counsel I slighted , and held it in scorn , But now here behold how I stick in the Horn . I gave myself over to ev'ry Vice , As Courting , and sporting with Cards and Dice I thought in my heart it would never be day , While I was attired in rich array : With Boon Companions I did Trade , They counted me a Jocular Blade , But now all my Glory is clearly decay'd , And into the Horn myself have betray'd . I once kept my Gelding abroad to Ride , My Hat and my feather , and Sword by my side , As long as my Pocket was lined with Gold , In pleasure I stram , and abroad I coul'd : But now no longer can I reign , In sorrowful note I here do complain , And stick in the Horn where I still must remain , And cannot get out if i'de never so fain . My Father he went in a Threadbare Coat , And on his old Angels was wont to dote ; Which he had obtain'd by Usury , And now I have spent it as merrily : I called for Wine like a Hector stout , My Golden Guinnies did fly about , I'd Revel and Rant , and i'de keep a fine rout , But now I am in where I cannot get out . I never would take any thought or care , I said that I was my old Father's Heir , My Festival Fellows was Roisterous Boys , We liv'd in delights with a thousand joys : While we in Splendour did abound , Methought the world went merrily round , But since friends & fortune together hath frowned I stick in the Horn , where I still may be found . My Father gave me all his freehold Land , And then at my Courtesy he would stand , Oh then thought I , thy Silver shan't rust , I'le make it to fly like the Summer's Dus Then did I keep my Prancing Naggs , Till I had emptied his Golden Bags , My Silks flourished like to a Navy of Flags , But now they are worn and torn to Rags . I Mortgag'd and sold , and I spent so fast , The Miser my father was vexed at last , To think that I squander'd away such sums , He scratched his ears , and he knawed his thumbs , His whole Estate was quite decay'd , By those vile Projects which I have play'd , Thus I have quite ruin'd the Usurers trade , And I in the Horn am a sorrowful Blade . Now here and Example I must remain , My freedom I never expect again , Young Gallants be warned , such ruin shun , Which has both my father and I undone : All comforts now from us are flown , My Father in Bedlam makes his moan , And I in the Counter a Prisoner thrown , This Horn is a Figure by which it is known . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Extravagant YOUTH , OR , And Emblem of PRODIGALITY . Tho' he was stout , he can't get out , in Trouble he'l remain Young-Men be wise , your Freedom prize , bad Company refrain . To the Tune of , King James's Jig ; Or , The Country Farmer . COme listen awhile and I will relate My sad and most dismal deplorable state , For now I am in a most woeful case , Ay running this wild and extravagent raze : When Silks and Satins did me adorn , I said that I was most Nobly Born , Good Counsel I slighted , and held it in scorn , But now here behold how I stick in the Horn . I gave myself over to ev'ry Vice , As Courting , and sporting with Cards and Dice I thought in my heart it would never be day , While I was attired in rich array : With Boon Companions I did Trade , They counted me a Jocular Blade , But now all my Glory is clearly decay'd , And into the Horn myself have betray'd . I once kept my Gelding abroad to Ride , My Hat and my feather , and Sword by my side , As long as my Pocket was lined with Gold , In pleasure I stram , and abroad I coul'd : But now no longer can I reign , In sorrowful note I here do complain , And stick in the Horn where I still must remain , And cannot get out if i'de never so fain . My Father he went in a Threadbare Coat , And on his old Angels was wont to dote ; Which he had obtain'd by Usury , And now I have spent it as merrily : I called for Wine like a Hector stout , My Golden Guinnies did fly about , I'd Revel and Rant , and i'de keep a fine rout , But now I am in where I cannot get out . I never would take any thought or care , I said that I was my old Father's Heir , My Festival Fellows was Roisterous Boys , We liv'd in delights with a thousand joys : While we in Splendour did abound , Methought the world went merrily round , But since friends & fortune together hath frowned I stick in the Horn , where I still may be found . My Father gave me all his freehold Land , And then at my Courtesy he would stand , Oh then thought I , thy Silver shan't rust , I'le make it to fly like the Summer's Dus Then did I keep my Prancing Naggs , Till I had emptied his Golden Bags , My Silks flourished like to a Navy of Flags , But now they are worn and torn to Rags . I Mortgag'd and sold , and I spent so fast , The Miser my father was vexed at last , To think that I squander'd away such sums , He scratched his ears , and he knawed his thumbs , His whole Estate was quite decay'd , By those vile Projects which I have play'd , Thus I have quite ruin'd the Usurers trade , And I in the Horn am a sorrowful Blade . Now here and Example I must remain , My freedom I never expect again , Young Gallants be warned , such ruin shun , Which has both my father and I undone : All comforts now from us are flown , My Father in Bedlam makes his moan , And I in the Counter a Prisoner thrown , This Horn is a Figure by which it is known . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 