A PANEGYRICK UPON OATES SILVESTREM TENUI MUSAM MEDITEMUR AVENA . OF all the Grain our Nation yield's In Orchards , Gardens , or in Fields , There is a Grain , ( which though 'tis common ) Its Worth till now , was known to no man Not Ceres Sickle 'ere did Crop , A Grain with Ears of greater hope ; For why ? some say , the Earth n'ere boar In any Climb , such Seed before . Yet this Grain has ( as all must own ) To Grooms and Ostlers well been known ; And often has , without disdain , In Musty Barn and Manger lain ; As if it had been only good To be for Birds and Beasts the Food : But now by new inspired force It keeps alive both Man and Horse Speak then , my Muse , for now we guess , What Grain it is , thou wouldst express . It is not Barley , Rye , or Wheat , That can pretend to such a Feat ; 'Tis Oats , bore Oats , which is become The Health of England , Bane of Rome , And Wonder of all Christendom . And therefore Oates has well deserv'd , From Musty Barn to be prefer'd , And now in Royal Court preserv'd ; That , like Hesperian Fruit , Oats may Be watch'd and Guarded night and Day ; Which is but just Retaliation For having Guarded a whole Nation . Hence every lofty Plant which stands 'Twixt Barwick Walls and Dover Sands , The Oak it self , which well we style The Pride and safeguard of our Isle , Must Wave and Strike its lofty Head , And now Salute and Oaten Reed : For surely Oats deserves to be Exalted far 'bove any Tree . Th' Egyptians once ( tho' it seems odd ) Did worship Onions for a God ; And poor peel'd Garlic was with them Esteem'd beyond the greatest Gem . What would they 'done , had they , think you Had such a Blade of Oats as we ? Oates of such known Divinity ! Since then by Oats such good we find , Let Let Oats at least now be enshrin'd , Or in some sacred Press enclos'd Be only kept to be expos'd ; And all found Relics else , shall be Deem'd Objects of Idolatry . Popelings may tell us , how they saw Their Garnet's Picture on a Straw ; 'Twas a Great miracle we know To see him drawn in little so , But on and Oaten Stalk , there is A greater miracle than this , A Visage , which with lively Grace Does Twenty Garnets now Outface , And like Twig of Dodona's Grove Ev'en speak's as if inspir'd by Jove . Nay , to add to the Wonder more , Declares unheard-of Things before , And Thousand mysteries does unfold , As plain as Oracles of old ; By which we steer affairs of State , And stave off Britain's sullen Fate . Let's then , in honour of the name Of Oats enact some Solemn Game , Where Oaten Pipe shall us inspire Beyond the Charms of Orpheus Lyre ; Stones , Stocks and every Senseless thing To Oats shall dance , to Oats shall sing . While Woods amaz'd to th' Echoes ring . And as ( that Hero's names may not When they are rotten ; be forgotten ) We hang Achievements o're their Dust ; ( A debt to their great merits jus ) So if Deserts of Oats we prize , Let Oats still hang before our eyes ; Thereby to raise our Contemplation , Oates being to this Happy Nation The Mystic Emblem of Salvation . FINIS . A PANEGYRICK UPON OATES SILVESTREM TENUI MUSAM MEDITEMUR AVENA . OF all the Grain our Nation yield's In Orchards , Gardens , or in Fields , There is a Grain , ( which though 'tis common ) Its Worth till now , was known to no man Not Ceres Sickle 'ere did Crop , A Grain with Ears of greater hope ; For why ? some say , the Earth n'ere boar In any Climb , such Seed before . Yet this Grain has ( as all must own ) To Grooms and Ostlers well been known ; And often has , without disdain , In Musty Barn and Manger lain ; As if it had been only good To be for Birds and Beasts the Food : But now by new inspired force It keeps alive both Man and Horse Speak then , my Muse , for now we guess , What Grain it is , thou wouldst express . It is not Barley , Rye , or Wheat , That can pretend to such a Feat ; 'Tis Oats , bore Oats , which is become The Health of England , Bane of Rome , And Wonder of all Christendom . And therefore Oates has well deserv'd , From Musty Barn to be prefer'd , And now in Royal Court preserv'd ; That , like Hesperian Fruit , Oats may Be watch'd and Guarded night and Day ; Which is but just Retaliation For having Guarded a whole Nation . Hence every lofty Plant which stands 'Twixt Barwick Walls and Dover Sands , The Oak it self , which well we style The Pride and safeguard of our Isle , Must Wave and Strike its lofty Head , And now Salute and Oaten Reed : For surely Oats deserves to be Exalted far 'bove any Tree . Th' Egyptians once ( tho' it seems odd ) Did worship Onions for a God ; And poor peel'd Garlic was with them Esteem'd beyond the greatest Gem . What would they 'done , had they , think you Had such a Blade of Oats as we ? Oates of such known Divinity ! Since then by Oats such good we find , Let Let Oats at least now be enshrin'd , Or in some sacred Press enclos'd Be only kept to be expos'd ; And all found Relics else , shall be Deem'd Objects of Idolatry . Popelings may tell us , how they saw Their Garnet's Picture on a Straw ; 'Twas a Great miracle we know To see him drawn in little so , But on and Oaten Stalk , there is A greater miracle than this , A Visage , which with lively Grace Does Twenty Garnets now Outface , And like Twig of Dodona's Grove Ev'en speak's as if inspir'd by Jove . Nay , to add to the Wonder more , Declares unheard-of Things before , And Thousand mysteries does unfold , As plain as Oracles of old ; By which we steer affairs of State , And stave off Britain's sullen Fate . Let's then , in honour of the name Of Oats enact some Solemn Game , Where Oaten Pipe shall us inspire Beyond the Charms of Orpheus Lyre ; Stones , Stocks and every Senseless thing To Oats shall dance , to Oats shall sing . While Woods amaz'd to th' Echoes ring . And as ( that Hero's names may not When they are rotten ; be forgotten ) We hang Achievements o're their Dust ; ( A debt to their great merits jus ) So if Deserts of Oats we prize , Let Oats still hang before our eyes ; Thereby to raise our Contemplation , Oates being to this Happy Nation The Mystic Emblem of Salvation . FINIS . 