The Politic WIFE ; OR THE Devil outwitted by a Woman . Of all the plagues upon the earth , That e'er poor men befall , It's hunger and a scolding wife . These are the worst of all . There was a poor man in our country , Of a poor and low degree , And with both these plagues he was troubled , And the worst of luck had he . He had seven children by one wife , And the times were poor and hard , And his poor toil was grown so bad , He scarce could get him bred . Being discontented in his mind , One day his house he left . And wandering down by a forest side , Of his senses quite bereft . As he was wandering up and down , Betwixt hope and despair , The Devil started out of a bush , And appeared unto him their . O what is the matter ? the Devil he said , You look so disconten Sure you want money to buy you some bred , Or to pay your landlord's rend . Indeed , kind sir , you read me right , And the grounds of my disease . Then what is your name , said the poor man , Pray tell me if you please . My name is Dumkin the Devil , quoth he , And the truth to you I do tell , Altho' you wandering here , Yet my dwelling it is in Hell . Then what will you give me , said the Devil . To ease you of you-want , And you shall have corn and cattle enough , And never partake of scant ? I have nothing to give you , said the poor man Nor nothing here in hand : But all the service that I can do , Shall be at your command . Then upon the condition of seven long years , A bargain with you I will frame , You shall bring me a beast unto this place , That I cannot tell its name : But if I tell its name full right , Then mark what to you I tell , Then you must go along with me , Directly unto Hell . This poor man went joyfully home , And thrifty he grew therefore ; For he had corn and cattle enough , And everything good store . His neighbours , who did live him round , Did wonder at him much . And thought that he had robb'd or stole , He was grown so wondrous rich . Then for the space of seven long years He lived in good cheer , But the time of his indenture growing near , He did begin to fear . O what is the matter ? said his wife , You look so discontent ! Sure you have god some maid with-child , And now you begin to repent . Indeed kind wife you judge me wrong , To censure so hard of me . Was it for getting a maid with child , That would be no felony , But I have made a league with the Devil , For seven long years no more , That I should have corn and cattle enough , And everything good store . Then for the space of seven long years , A bargain I did frame , I should bring him a beast unto that place , He could not tell its name : But if he tell its name full right , Then mark what to you I tell ! Then I must go along with him , Directly unto Hell , Go get you gone , you silly old man , Your cattle go tend and feed ; For a woman's wit is far better than man's , If us'd in time of need ; Go fetch me down all the birdlime thou hast , And set it down on the floor , When I have pull'd my clothes all off , You shall anoint me all o'er . Now when he had anointed her , From the head unto the heel ; Zound ! said the poor man , methinks you look . Just like the very De'el ; Go fetch me down all the feathers thou hast , And lay them down by me , And I will roll myself therein , 'Till never a place go free . Come tie a string abot my neck , And led me to this place , And I will save you from the Devil , If I have but so much grace . The Devil he stood roaring out , And look'd both fierce and bold : Thou hast brought me a beast unto this place , And the bargain thou dost hold . Come shew' me the face of this beast , said the Devil , Come show it me in a short space : Then he showed to him his wife's buttocks , And swore it was her face . She has monstrous cheeks , the Devil he said , And her visage is wondrous grim , She has but one eye in all her whole head , And methinks it looks wondrous grim , Come show me the mouth of this beast , said the Devil Come show it me speedily , Zounds ! said the poor man , if you're not blind , 'Tis and inch just under her eye . And if she stood upon all-fours , As now she stands at length . You'd take her to be some monstrous beast , Taken by man's main strength . How many more of these beasts , said the Devil , How many more of the kind ? I have seven more , said the poor man , But have left them all behind . If you have seven more such , said the Devil , The truth unto you I tell , You have beasts enough to cheat me , And all the Devils in Hell . Here take thy bound and indenture both , I'll have nothing to do with thee ; So the man and his wife went joyfully home , And lived full merrily . O God send us good merry long lives , Without any sorrow or woe , Now here's a heah to all such wives , Who can cheat the Devil so . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The Politic WIFE ; OR THE Devil outwitted by a Woman . Of all the plagues upon the earth , That e'er poor men befall , It's hunger and a scolding wife . These are the worst of all . There was a poor man in our country , Of a poor and low degree , And with both these plagues he was troubled , And the worst of luck had he . He had seven children by one wife , And the times were poor and hard , And his poor toil was grown so bad , He scarce could get him bred . Being discontented in his mind , One day his house he left . And wandering down by a forest side , Of his senses quite bereft . As he was wandering up and down , Betwixt hope and despair , The Devil started out of a bush , And appeared unto him their . O what is the matter ? the Devil he said , You look so disconten Sure you want money to buy you some bred , Or to pay your landlord's rend . Indeed , kind sir , you read me right , And the grounds of my disease . Then what is your name , said the poor man , Pray tell me if you please . My name is Dumkin the Devil , quoth he , And the truth to you I do tell , Altho' you wandering here , Yet my dwelling it is in Hell . Then what will you give me , said the Devil . To ease you of you-want , And you shall have corn and cattle enough , And never partake of scant ? I have nothing to give you , said the poor man Nor nothing here in hand : But all the service that I can do , Shall be at your command . Then upon the condition of seven long years , A bargain with you I will frame , You shall bring me a beast unto this place , That I cannot tell its name : But if I tell its name full right , Then mark what to you I tell , Then you must go along with me , Directly unto Hell . This poor man went joyfully home , And thrifty he grew therefore ; For he had corn and cattle enough , And everything good store . His neighbours , who did live him round , Did wonder at him much . And thought that he had robb'd or stole , He was grown so wondrous rich . Then for the space of seven long years He lived in good cheer , But the time of his indenture growing near , He did begin to fear . O what is the matter ? said his wife , You look so discontent ! Sure you have god some maid with-child , And now you begin to repent . Indeed kind wife you judge me wrong , To censure so hard of me . Was it for getting a maid with child , That would be no felony , But I have made a league with the Devil , For seven long years no more , That I should have corn and cattle enough , And everything good store . Then for the space of seven long years , A bargain I did frame , I should bring him a beast unto that place , He could not tell its name : But if he tell its name full right , Then mark what to you I tell ! Then I must go along with him , Directly unto Hell , Go get you gone , you silly old man , Your cattle go tend and feed ; For a woman's wit is far better than man's , If us'd in time of need ; Go fetch me down all the birdlime thou hast , And set it down on the floor , When I have pull'd my clothes all off , You shall anoint me all o'er . Now when he had anointed her , From the head unto the heel ; Zound ! said the poor man , methinks you look . Just like the very De'el ; Go fetch me down all the feathers thou hast , And lay them down by me , And I will roll myself therein , 'Till never a place go free . Come tie a string abot my neck , And led me to this place , And I will save you from the Devil , If I have but so much grace . The Devil he stood roaring out , And look'd both fierce and bold : Thou hast brought me a beast unto this place , And the bargain thou dost hold . Come shew' me the face of this beast , said the Devil , Come show it me in a short space : Then he showed to him his wife's buttocks , And swore it was her face . She has monstrous cheeks , the Devil he said , And her visage is wondrous grim , She has but one eye in all her whole head , And methinks it looks wondrous grim , Come show me the mouth of this beast , said the Devil Come show it me speedily , Zounds ! said the poor man , if you're not blind , 'Tis and inch just under her eye . And if she stood upon all-fours , As now she stands at length . You'd take her to be some monstrous beast , Taken by man's main strength . How many more of these beasts , said the Devil , How many more of the kind ? I have seven more , said the poor man , But have left them all behind . If you have seven more such , said the Devil , The truth unto you I tell , You have beasts enough to cheat me , And all the Devils in Hell . Here take thy bound and indenture both , I'll have nothing to do with thee ; So the man and his wife went joyfully home , And lived full merrily . O God send us good merry long lives , Without any sorrow or woe , Now here's a heah to all such wives , Who can cheat the Devil so . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 