The Male and Female Husband ; OR , A Strange and Wondered Relation how a Midwife living at St. Albans , being brought to Bed of and Hermophrodite , brought it up in Woman's Apparel , and carried it with her as her Deputy to be assisting at the Labours of several Women , going under the Name of Mary Jewi And how at last a discovery of it was made by its Lying with a maid , and getting her with-Child , whom the said Hermophrodite was thereup - on obliged to marry : With a particular account of the Trades and Employments it was put to during its Minority . With several pleasant passages that happened . To the Tune of , What shall I do , shall I die for Love , etc COme listen all unto my Song , for why it is most true ; The like whereof you seldom herd , or yet but rarely knew : A Midwife in St. Albans lives , whose name I shall not cite : For some Years past , she's brought to Bed of and Hermophrodite . Which she in Female habit dressed , that it might not be known ; And so for many Years none knew but it that Sex did own : For why as it grew up in Years , it with her oft did go To women's labours , that her skill she might unto it show . And let it oft with women lie , who knew not that it boar Of either Sex a signal mark , and had each thing in store : And oft with Maids it us'd to be , but long time did refrain From the kind feats of Venus sport , for fear they should complain . A Females name indeed it had , and Marry Jewit call'd , And so for many Years was thought , e're it could be inthrall'd : But at the last being lusty grown , when as the Mother went To lay a Woman , with the Maid in Bed some nights it spent . And it's Male-instruments so us'd , the wrench prov'd great with child , When being tax'd who god the same , she blush'd , and answered mild , The feigned Female that did come with Mother-Midnight , why Because he had Male-parts as well as Female 'twixt the Thighs . And that it being lusty grown , surpriz'd her in her sleep , She nothing dreaming of the thing , it 'twixt her Legs did creep : Which on a sudden waking , she shrieks and Starts with fear ; But all in vain , for it was fast lock'd in her Virgin-geer . And after that some other Nights they did both sport and play ; The wench being familiar grown , said not the Monster nay ; But in short time she's big with-child by this both-Sexed thing ; For which some folks strait her before a Justice then did bring . And there she set the Story forth , which made some women smile , To think how with a double-Sex , Dame Midnight did beguile : While others blush'd to think how it Nature's great Business saw : Which to the Female-sex alone , is common by their Law . Nor would they be at all convinc'd until a search was made : For why the suppos'd Lass did learn , longtime a Sempsters Trade : But the good women having searched did find each Member good : And that Rogero 'bove the Cleft , most firm and stoutly stood . When on their words the Justice then did bid them both agree : for since the wench was god with child they both must married be . To which our Hermophrodite did give his free consen And changing habit for a man , he to the Church straight went . Having since learn'd the Gentle-craft though Craft he had before , And could the feats of either Sex perform and keep in store . But now to London they are come , as many does suspec There to set up a wicked Trade , and Modesty neglect . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in West-smithfield . The Male and Female Husband ; OR , A Strange and Wondered Relation how a Midwife living at St. Albans , being brought to Bed of and Hermophrodite , brought it up in Woman's Apparel , and carried it with her as her Deputy to be assisting at the Labours of several Women , going under the Name of Mary Jewi And how at last a discovery of it was made by its Lying with a maid , and getting her with-Child , whom the said Hermophrodite was thereup - on obliged to marry : With a particular account of the Trades and Employments it was put to during its Minority . With several pleasant passages that happened . To the Tune of , What shall I do , shall I die for Love , etc COme listen all unto my Song , for why it is most true ; The like whereof you seldom herd , or yet but rarely knew : A Midwife in St. Albans lives , whose name I shall not cite : For some Years past , she's brought to Bed of and Hermophrodite . Which she in Female habit dressed , that it might not be known ; And so for many Years none knew but it that Sex did own : For why as it grew up in Years , it with her oft did go To women's labours , that her skill she might unto it show . And let it oft with women lie , who knew not that it boar Of either Sex a signal mark , and had each thing in store : And oft with Maids it us'd to be , but long time did refrain From the kind feats of Venus sport , for fear they should complain . A Females name indeed it had , and Marry Jewit call'd , And so for many Years was thought , e're it could be inthrall'd : But at the last being lusty grown , when as the Mother went To lay a Woman , with the Maid in Bed some nights it spent . And it's Male-instruments so us'd , the wrench prov'd great with child , When being tax'd who god the same , she blush'd , and answered mild , The feigned Female that did come with Mother-Midnight , why Because he had Male-parts as well as Female 'twixt the Thighs . And that it being lusty grown , surpriz'd her in her sleep , She nothing dreaming of the thing , it 'twixt her Legs did creep : Which on a sudden waking , she shrieks and Starts with fear ; But all in vain , for it was fast lock'd in her Virgin-geer . And after that some other Nights they did both sport and play ; The wench being familiar grown , said not the Monster nay ; But in short time she's big with-child by this both-Sexed thing ; For which some folks strait her before a Justice then did bring . And there she set the Story forth , which made some women smile , To think how with a double-Sex , Dame Midnight did beguile : While others blush'd to think how it Nature's great Business saw : Which to the Female-sex alone , is common by their Law . Nor would they be at all convinc'd until a search was made : For why the suppos'd Lass did learn , longtime a Sempsters Trade : But the good women having searched did find each Member good : And that Rogero 'bove the Cleft , most firm and stoutly stood . When on their words the Justice then did bid them both agree : for since the wench was god with child they both must married be . To which our Hermophrodite did give his free consen And changing habit for a man , he to the Church straight went . Having since learn'd the Gentle-craft though Craft he had before , And could the feats of either Sex perform and keep in store . But now to London they are come , as many does suspec There to set up a wicked Trade , and Modesty neglect . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in West-smithfield . 