A New Protestant Ballad , CALLED , ENGLANDS Congratulation For its Happy Condition under the Glorious Reign of King William and Queen Marry . Now Wars , Dissensions , Want and Taxes cease , And in their room comes Trade , and Wealth , and Peace . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . I . LEt England Rejoice , with heart and with voice , Let's all sing aloud , Boys , to our happy choice ; Experience convinces , we've god two such Princes , That all former Tyranny now banished hence is : With thanks let us mention , Our blessed Convention , Which eases our Charges , and heals our Dissension : For now there's no danger that we should miscarry , While Govern'd so wisely by William and Mary . II Of late bald Priests swarmed , with Popish Zeal warmed And all Godly Protestants sorely Alarmed ; With damn'd Latin Tongue , and with puffed up Lung , They roar'd out their Matin's and Vespers so long : Nay , so bold were they , As to Preach and to Pray , In our Learned City , their old silly way : But now neither Papist nor Foreigners tarry Here under the Reign of William and Mary . III . With such heavy Taxes the Nation did groan , The like ne'r before nor since has been known : The late King did take all , or so much did borrow , He empty'd our Purses , and fill'd us with sorrow : But now , God be praised , Our Burdens are eased , No more bloody Taxes are now to be raised ; And no Subject's Property e're can miscarry , While England is Governed by William and Mary . IV. We had many sad thoughts and prospects before , But now we ne'r look , nor think any more : The French dare not meddle , Scotch Bishops are down , The Irish are beaten , and all is our own : King Lewis is seen Without Money or Men , And King James he is running back hither again : Thus in Peace we do flourish , and nought does miscarry , In this lucky Reign of William and Mary . V. In the last Reign , alas ! our Ships could not pass , And at a low Ebb our Trading it was ; The Exchequer was poor , and nothing did give , As now it does much , honest men to relieve : Now , now , we are made , Our Debts are all pay'd , Our Merchant's grow Rich , with a free open Trade : The People are steady , not one man is weary Of the settled Reign of William and Mary . VI . Our Church and our Laws , in the hands of our Foes , Had like t' have been lost , as they did suppose ; For Graham and Brent , had and evil intent , To change Corporations , and whole Government But now Bishops rare , With Judges most fair , Have brought things again to be just where they were ; And from that , to be sure , we never shall vary , While Church & State's Govern'd by William and Mary . VII . Privy-Counsellours too , without more ado , Are well chosen all , and wise ones are now ; They're none of King James's , they never do wrong , But move all in Concord , as does this my Song : Tho' some of them may Not know what to say , Yet Honestly all they will Vote the right way : But were they all Fools , we could not miscarry , If Govern'd alone by William and Mary . VIII . Thus all things do prosper , and special success Does every Design of our Sovereigns bless : Our Fleet has done Wonders , our Army the same , And Schomberg has purchas'd a Wife and new Fame : They whom James does Command , Both by Sea and by Land , Are half dead of the Rot , while ours do found stand : Our Princely new buildings mount up to the Sky , To show the firm standing of William and Mary . IX . Wherefore let us all , as well great as small , Join our hearts and our Purses whenever they call ; What's matter for Pelf , let it go , 'tis but Dross , With them comes our wealth , and 'tis theirs to a Cross . Let's make much of those Men , That brought our Prince in , lest Both he and they should forsake us again : They who Grumble at this , will only miscarry , For they show they do love neither William nor Mary . FINIS . A New Protestant Ballad , CALLED , ENGLANDS Congratulation For its Happy Condition under the Glorious Reign of King William and Queen Marry . Now Wars , Dissensions , Want and Taxes cease , And in their room comes Trade , and Wealth , and Peace . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . I . LEt England Rejoice , with heart and with voice , Let's all sing aloud , Boys , to our happy choice ; Experience convinces , we've god two such Princes , That all former Tyranny now banished hence is : With thanks let us mention , Our blessed Convention , Which eases our Charges , and heals our Dissension : For now there's no danger that we should miscarry , While Govern'd so wisely by William and Mary . II Of late bald Priests swarmed , with Popish Zeal warmed And all Godly Protestants sorely Alarmed ; With damn'd Latin Tongue , and with puffed up Lung , They roar'd out their Matin's and Vespers so long : Nay , so bold were they , As to Preach and to Pray , In our Learned City , their old silly way : But now neither Papist nor Foreigners tarry Here under the Reign of William and Mary . III . With such heavy Taxes the Nation did groan , The like ne'r before nor since has been known : The late King did take all , or so much did borrow , He empty'd our Purses , and fill'd us with sorrow : But now , God be praised , Our Burdens are eased , No more bloody Taxes are now to be raised ; And no Subject's Property e're can miscarry , While England is Governed by William and Mary . IV. We had many sad thoughts and prospects before , But now we ne'r look , nor think any more : The French dare not meddle , Scotch Bishops are down , The Irish are beaten , and all is our own : King Lewis is seen Without Money or Men , And King James he is running back hither again : Thus in Peace we do flourish , and nought does miscarry , In this lucky Reign of William and Mary . V. In the last Reign , alas ! our Ships could not pass , And at a low Ebb our Trading it was ; The Exchequer was poor , and nothing did give , As now it does much , honest men to relieve : Now , now , we are made , Our Debts are all pay'd , Our Merchant's grow Rich , with a free open Trade : The People are steady , not one man is weary Of the settled Reign of William and Mary . VI . Our Church and our Laws , in the hands of our Foes , Had like t' have been lost , as they did suppose ; For Graham and Brent , had and evil intent , To change Corporations , and whole Government But now Bishops rare , With Judges most fair , Have brought things again to be just where they were ; And from that , to be sure , we never shall vary , While Church & State's Govern'd by William and Mary . VII . Privy-Counsellours too , without more ado , Are well chosen all , and wise ones are now ; They're none of King James's , they never do wrong , But move all in Concord , as does this my Song : Tho' some of them may Not know what to say , Yet Honestly all they will Vote the right way : But were they all Fools , we could not miscarry , If Govern'd alone by William and Mary . VIII . Thus all things do prosper , and special success Does every Design of our Sovereigns bless : Our Fleet has done Wonders , our Army the same , And Schomberg has purchas'd a Wife and new Fame : They whom James does Command , Both by Sea and by Land , Are half dead of the Rot , while ours do found stand : Our Princely new buildings mount up to the Sky , To show the firm standing of William and Mary . IX . Wherefore let us all , as well great as small , Join our hearts and our Purses whenever they call ; What's matter for Pelf , let it go , 'tis but Dross , With them comes our wealth , and 'tis theirs to a Cross . Let's make much of those Men , That brought our Prince in , lest Both he and they should forsake us again : They who Grumble at this , will only miscarry , For they show they do love neither William nor Mary . FINIS . 