ANN ASKEW ; Entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind , etc I Am a Woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me ; Long have I sought , but fain would find , what Herb in my Garden were best to be . A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my Body , where I should have sown the seed of Christ's true Verity . My Spirit within me is vexed soar , my Spirit striveth against the same , My Sorrows do increase more and more , my Conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with myself being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest , Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired hem for the love of the Lord , true Seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in my blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for Venial Sins , he bid me go To give my money to Stones and Stocks , which was stark lies , and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and Balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christ's Passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned Seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling Deeds , still God's Spirit out of my Garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry , to be pray'd for while the World does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your Father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devil's Works , thinking sufficient my Soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his Mirits I did deprave . I might liken myself with a woeful heart , unto the dumb Man in Luke the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus , good Lord , so quickly I spent , alas , I shall die the sooner therefore , Oh Lord , I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store , For such Sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for Prison , Fire , Faggot , or fierce Sword . Strengthen me , good Lord , in thy truth to stand , for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter-knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour and kill . O Lord , forgive me my Offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful Body from hence , then shall I vile Creature offend thee no more . I would wish all Creatures and faithful Friends , for to keep from this Gardener's hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel Torments of fierce Firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it is well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent Seed abroad hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust that hereafter that by God's holy Grace , that all faithful Men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my Spirit , that art the Workmaster of the same , It is thine Lord , take it of right , my Carcase on Earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou can'st raise it again ; In the same Likeness as thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . ANN ASKEW ; Entitled , I am a Woman Poor and Blind , etc I Am a Woman poor and blind , and little knowledge remains in me ; Long have I sought , but fain would find , what Herb in my Garden were best to be . A Garden I have which is unknown , which God of his goodness gave to me , I mean my Body , where I should have sown the seed of Christ's true Verity . My Spirit within me is vexed soar , my Spirit striveth against the same , My Sorrows do increase more and more , my Conscience suffers most bitter pain . I with myself being thus at strife , would fain have been at rest , Musing and studying in mortal life , what things I might do to please God best . With whole intent and one accord , unto a Gardener that I did know , I went and desired hem for the love of the Lord , true Seed in my Garden for to sow . Then this proud Gardener seeing me so blind , he thought on me to work his will , And flattered me with words so kind , to have me continue in my blindness still . He fed me then with lies and mocks , for Venial Sins , he bid me go To give my money to Stones and Stocks , which was stark lies , and nothing so . With stinking meat then was I fed , for to keep me from my Salvation , I had Trentals of Mass , and Balls of Led , not one word spoke of Christ's Passion . In me was sown all kind of feigned Seeds , with Popish Ceremonies many a one , Masses of Requiem , with other juggling Deeds , still God's Spirit out of my Garden was gone . Then was I commanded most strictly , if of my Salvation I would be sure , To built some Chapel or Chauntry , to be pray'd for while the World does endure . Beware of a new learning ( quoth he ) it lies , which is the thing I most abhor , Meddle not with it in any manner of wise , but do as your Father's have done before . My trust I did put in the Devil's Works , thinking sufficient my Soul to save , Being worse then either Jews or Turks , thus Christ of his Mirits I did deprave . I might liken myself with a woeful heart , unto the dumb Man in Luke the Eleven , From whence Christ caused the Devil to depart , but shortly after he took the other seven . My time thus , good Lord , so quickly I spent , alas , I shall die the sooner therefore , Oh Lord , I find it written in thy Testament , that thou hast mercy enough in store , For such Sinners as the Scripture says , that will gladly repent and follow thy word , Which I will not deny while I have breath , for Prison , Fire , Faggot , or fierce Sword . Strengthen me , good Lord , in thy truth to stand , for the bloody Butchers have me at their will , With their slaughter-knives ready drawn in their hands , my simple Carcase to devour and kill . O Lord , forgive me my Offence , for I have offended thee very soar , Take therefore my sinful Body from hence , then shall I vile Creature offend thee no more . I would wish all Creatures and faithful Friends , for to keep from this Gardener's hands , For he will bring them soon unto their ends , with cruel Torments of fierce Firebrands . I dare not presume for him to pray , because the truth of him it is well known , But since that time he hath gone astray , and much pestilent Seed abroad hath sown . Because that now I have no space , the cause of my death truly to show , I trust that hereafter that by God's holy Grace , that all faithful Men shall plainly know . To thee , Oh Lord , I bequeathe my Spirit , that art the Workmaster of the same , It is thine Lord , take it of right , my Carcase on Earth I leave from whence it came . Although to Ashes it be now burned , I know thou can'st raise it again ; In the same Likeness as thou it formed , in Heaven with thee evermore to remain . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . The SHEPHERDS Petition TO The Goddess of Beauty . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune , called , Let the Soldiers rejoice . LEt my Celia prove kind , Of a gentle soft mind , Since she's fair as the Be ----- ams of the Morning ; Enthron'd within her Eye , Thousand young Cupids lie , With the G [ r ] ances , the Graces , this Beauty adorning . How fair her Cheeks show Where the white Lilies grow , And how sweet are her Cham ---- rms and her Kisses ; ( Those softer Seals of Love ) Does entangle great Jove , And to Court her , to Court her , is all that he wishes . Her Breasts ( like the Snow ) Are Fountains , that flow With Kindness , and Swe ------ etness , and Pleasure ; And then the Golden Mine , ( More delightful than Wine ) Makes me ever , forever , to wish for the Treasure . This Jewel and Prize , ( That Dazzles all Eyes ) Sweet Venus now gi ----- we to a Lover ; With Celia let me rest , ( In her soft Arms be blessed ) And I'll love her , I'll love her , and never give over . 'Tis Love that does Refine , ( 'Tis a Passion Divine ) In the Great , and the Bra ---- we , and the Witty ; It sweetens everything , Makes a Peasant a King , Makes the Plough to be pleasant as Court or the City . With Celia let me live , She all Joys can give , Such is the bright Beau ----- ties great Power ; Around the Woods we'll range , And while all things do change , We'll be constant , be constant , and happy each hour . If any Change we make , Let it be for each sake , I only your Hea ---- rt thus possessing ; Thus ( Fairest ) you have mine , And let me have thine , 'Twill bring me Delight , true Delight , and a Blessing . Each morning Linnets too , Shall sweetly Court and Woo , Fair Celia , and pra ---- i'm heir bright Beauty ; The Fawns shall wait on thee , And thy pretty Pages be , To follow , to follow , they'll think it their Duty . Come then ( my Dear ) with me , And I'll leave all for thee , Let us fly to the Do ---- wns , free from trouble ; For there we soon shall find , That the whispering Wind , Will declare , will declare , that the World is a Bubble . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The SHEPHERDS Petition TO The Goddess of Beauty . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune , called , Let the Soldiers rejoice . LEt my Celia prove kind , Of a gentle soft mind , Since she's fair as the Be ----- ams of the Morning ; Enthron'd within her Eye , Thousand young Cupids lie , With the G [ r ] ances , the Graces , this Beauty adorning . How fair her Cheeks show Where the white Lilies grow , And how sweet are her Cham ---- rms and her Kisses ; ( Those softer Seals of Love ) Does entangle great Jove , And to Court her , to Court her , is all that he wishes . Her Breasts ( like the Snow ) Are Fountains , that flow With Kindness , and Swe ------ etness , and Pleasure ; And then the Golden Mine , ( More delightful than Wine ) Makes me ever , forever , to wish for the Treasure . This Jewel and Prize , ( That Dazzles all Eyes ) Sweet Venus now gi ----- we to a Lover ; With Celia let me rest , ( In her soft Arms be blessed ) And I'll love her , I'll love her , and never give over . 'Tis Love that does Refine , ( 'Tis a Passion Divine ) In the Great , and the Bra ---- we , and the Witty ; It sweetens everything , Makes a Peasant a King , Makes the Plough to be pleasant as Court or the City . With Celia let me live , She all Joys can give , Such is the bright Beau ----- ties great Power ; Around the Woods we'll range , And while all things do change , We'll be constant , be constant , and happy each hour . If any Change we make , Let it be for each sake , I only your Hea ---- rt thus possessing ; Thus ( Fairest ) you have mine , And let me have thine , 'Twill bring me Delight , true Delight , and a Blessing . Each morning Linnets too , Shall sweetly Court and Woo , Fair Celia , and pra ---- i'm heir bright Beauty ; The Fawns shall wait on thee , And thy pretty Pages be , To follow , to follow , they'll think it their Duty . Come then ( my Dear ) with me , And I'll leave all for thee , Let us fly to the Do ---- wns , free from trouble ; For there we soon shall find , That the whispering Wind , Will declare , will declare , that the World is a Bubble . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 