THE Troubles of this World : OR , Nothing Cheap but poor Men's Labour ; Concluding with a Line of Comfortable Consolation , to Cheer up our Drooping Hearts , in a time of Trouble . To the Tune of , The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . LEt honest Tradesmen now attend , and bear a mourful part with me , It is to you these lines I send , For to condole our Misery ; I see the times which makes me weep , Here's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . The smiles of Fortune now are fled , And gloomy Clouds with grief appear ; Since times are hard , and Trading dead , and e'ry thing excessive dear , Which makes some thousands sighs and weep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . Some Persons , that was free to give Relief to their poor Friends of late , Do hardly now know how to live , The Taxes being grown so great ; Since things are dear their own they'll keep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . From foreign Lands all Merchandise , As Linen , Silks , Fruit , Sugar , Spice , They to the Nation Sorrow rise , And to a vast excessive price , We have just cause to sighs and weep , Here's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . Those that have thousands lying by , Will hardly now the Poor regard , Tell them your grief , and they reply That Trading's dead , and Times are hard , And therefore what they have they they'll keep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . The Working-man may pinch and spare , To bring the weary Week about , At length there comes another care , How he shall lay his Money out ; Since at a price all things they keep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap , 'Tis to be fear'd that some there are , Who do in private make their moan , Oppressed with Poverty and Care ; Yet cannot make their sorrow known , All things at a high price they keep , There's nought but poor Men Labour's cheap . There's not a Loaf of Bred we buy , But costs a double price or more , Of what it went at formerly , Now this must needs oppress the poor , And give them cause to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . We see in Country , Court , or Town , The rich will small Compassion show , Upon their sorrows they will frown , Of those that are but mean and low ; Those things I see which makes me weep ; There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . The rich Men they , continually , Run down the poor Men's Labour still , If he'll not work so , strait they cry , Begun , we know another will ; And thus the poor in awe they keep , There's nothing but their Labour cheap . The Working-man he strait complies , Because of his young Children small , For half a Loaf of Bred he cries , Is better far than none at all , Because he hath a charge to keep , He's forc'd to Work and Labour cheap . When little Babes cries for relief , The one for Bred , the other Beer , There cannot be a greater Grief , To tender loving Parents dear , Than for to hear them make their moan , For Bred , perhaps , when they have none . Alas , too well , we understand , What causes all our Grief and Care , It is the Wars by Sea and Land , Alas , Alas , who can forbear , In these hard times , to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . Let's pray to God , entreat him still , To look upon our Grief and Pain , And if it be his blessed Will , To send the Nation Peace again ; For while these Wars and Troubles are , Here's none but Sorrows , Grief , and Care . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . THE Troubles of this World : OR , Nothing Cheap but poor Men's Labour ; Concluding with a Line of Comfortable Consolation , to Cheer up our Drooping Hearts , in a time of Trouble . To the Tune of , The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . LEt honest Tradesmen now attend , and bear a mourful part with me , It is to you these lines I send , For to condole our Misery ; I see the times which makes me weep , Here's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . The smiles of Fortune now are fled , And gloomy Clouds with grief appear ; Since times are hard , and Trading dead , and e'ry thing excessive dear , Which makes some thousands sighs and weep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . Some Persons , that was free to give Relief to their poor Friends of late , Do hardly now know how to live , The Taxes being grown so great ; Since things are dear their own they'll keep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . From foreign Lands all Merchandise , As Linen , Silks , Fruit , Sugar , Spice , They to the Nation Sorrow rise , And to a vast excessive price , We have just cause to sighs and weep , Here's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . Those that have thousands lying by , Will hardly now the Poor regard , Tell them your grief , and they reply That Trading's dead , and Times are hard , And therefore what they have they they'll keep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . The Working-man may pinch and spare , To bring the weary Week about , At length there comes another care , How he shall lay his Money out ; Since at a price all things they keep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap , 'Tis to be fear'd that some there are , Who do in private make their moan , Oppressed with Poverty and Care ; Yet cannot make their sorrow known , All things at a high price they keep , There's nought but poor Men Labour's cheap . There's not a Loaf of Bred we buy , But costs a double price or more , Of what it went at formerly , Now this must needs oppress the poor , And give them cause to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . We see in Country , Court , or Town , The rich will small Compassion show , Upon their sorrows they will frown , Of those that are but mean and low ; Those things I see which makes me weep ; There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . The rich Men they , continually , Run down the poor Men's Labour still , If he'll not work so , strait they cry , Begun , we know another will ; And thus the poor in awe they keep , There's nothing but their Labour cheap . The Working-man he strait complies , Because of his young Children small , For half a Loaf of Bred he cries , Is better far than none at all , Because he hath a charge to keep , He's forc'd to Work and Labour cheap . When little Babes cries for relief , The one for Bred , the other Beer , There cannot be a greater Grief , To tender loving Parents dear , Than for to hear them make their moan , For Bred , perhaps , when they have none . Alas , too well , we understand , What causes all our Grief and Care , It is the Wars by Sea and Land , Alas , Alas , who can forbear , In these hard times , to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor Men's Labour cheap . Let's pray to God , entreat him still , To look upon our Grief and Pain , And if it be his blessed Will , To send the Nation Peace again ; For while these Wars and Troubles are , Here's none but Sorrows , Grief , and Care . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 