A Welcome to the MEDAL ; OR AND Excellent New SONG ; Call'd The Constitution Restor'd , in 1711. To the Tune of Mortimer's-Hole . 1. LEt's Joy in the Medal with James the IIId's Face , And the Advocates that Pleaded for him ; Tho' the Nation Renounces the whole Popish Raze , Great Lewis of France will Restore him . La , la , etc 2. Health to the New Coll'nels and Captains so Pretty , With S ------- lk and the rest of the Train , Sir , Who Play'd thro' the City , the High-Church-Men's Ditty , The King shall his own have again , Sir . La , la , etc 3. What tho' we did Swear , to the Protestant Heir , And roundly Abjur'd the Pretender ; Our Oaths must give place , to the True Royal Raze , Or our High-Faith will want a Defender . La , la , etc 4. Who wou'd not rejoice at a Turn of the State , Which Rescu'd our Old Constitution ? From that Happy Perjod , we joyfully Date The Fallen of the Curs'd Revolution . La , la , etc 5. To begin with Resistance , Sachev'rel did say , 'Tis the Doctrine of Devils , and Hell , Sir ; But Passive-Obedience does now bear the Sway , As the Wise I ------ sh Bishops can tell , Sir . La , la , etc 6. Hereditary Right , which sav'd James the Just , From the Damnable Bill of Exclusion ; Will bring in his Son , as High Church Men do trust , To the Hannover-House's Confusion . La , la , etc 7. And to show that the Jacobite Interest rises , To High-Churchmen's great Consolation , The Pretender's Medals do bear double Prizes , And his Friends are in high Reputation . La , la , etc 8. While thus our Brave Priesthood with vigilant Care , Our Factions and Ferments do Nourish ; Old Lewis is sure to succeed in the War , And his Grandson's Sceptre must Flourish . La , la , etc 9. The Dutch shall be Ruin'd , the Whiggs shall be Damn'd , And Austria's House be Confounded ; The Gaul's shall Rejoice , while our Allies are Shamm'd , And our Quarrels with France are Compounded . La , la , etc 10. Now Pr ------ r , and M ------ r . with Pistoles in great store , From France are Arrived at Dover ; And ABEL may Roar , 'till his Lungs are quite Soar , That there can be no need of Hanover . La , la , etc 11. Great Treaties like ours , must infallibly bear , Since the Persons Employ'd , are so Able ; Tho' one was a Drawer , and t' other , some Swear Was the Politic Groom of a Stable . La , la , etc 12. Yet they're guided by one , who is very well known , And a thorough pac'd Statesman is reckon'd ; In the Read ------ r Address the Whiggs he knock'd down , With the 12th of King Charles the Second . La , la , etc 13. Thus bravely he Fights their Lewd Bill of Rights , And baffles their Damn'd Revolution ; By Statutes Repeal'd , Non-Resistance he heal'd , And to High-Church he gave Absolution . La , la , etc 14. Wide open to all a Subscription Book stands , With some Advocates at Edin --- borrow ; Where Perkin's true Friends do set to their Hands , If he'll come , they'll receive him to Morrow . La , la , etc 15. Good Mr. Dundass , has giv'n him a Pass , The Kingdom of Scotland to enter ; And the Duchess of Gordon , that brave Popish Lass , does Swear by the Mass , He may venture . La , la , etc 16. By such Great Examples , all People will find That the Jacobites are in no Peril For the Prince at St. Germains , to speak out their Mind , Or to Drink a Full Bumper to Sorrel . La , la , etc 17. Thus Lesley , and Hicks , with their Politic Tricks , Have gain'd on the Sense of the Nation ; The Dissenters are troubled , to find themselves bubbled , For Indulgence is no Toleration . La , la , etc 18. Their Barns are burned down , and their Teachers are Damn'd For Preaching in Tubs without Order ; The Silly Low-Church , will be left in the Lurch , And the Scotch Kirk drove out of our Borders . La , la , etc 19. Let Schismatics Pine , let Republicans Wine , And henceforth abandon these Nations ; While Tories Rejoice , and cry with one Voice , Obedience without Limitations . La , la , etc 20. Let our Trade go to Wreck , and all our Stocks Sink , While our High-Church Rides safe from all Danger ; Since Land's above Money , we have reason to think The QUEEN's-Brother will Conquer the Stranger . La , la , etc 21. Let the Whigs that love Trade , the South-Seas Invade , And there we will give 'em Debentures ; For the Money they've Lent , 'till the whole Sum be spent , And a Sponge wipe out all their Adventures . La , la , etc 22. They shall have for Director , their Germane Elector , Who certainly will not Play Booty ; He's too much in the Stock , the Project to Shock , Good PRINCESS SOPHIA Adieu t' you . La , la , etc Oxford , at the Theatre . M.DCC.XI . A Welcome to the MEDAL ; OR AND Excellent New SONG ; Call'd The Constitution Restor'd , in 1711. To the Tune of Mortimer's-Hole . 1. LEt's Joy in the Medal with James the IIId's Face , And the Advocates that Pleaded for him ; Tho' the Nation Renounces the whole Popish Raze , Great Lewis of France will Restore him . La , la , etc 2. Health to the New Coll'nels and Captains so Pretty , With S ------- lk and the rest of the Train , Sir , Who Play'd thro' the City , the High-Church-Men's Ditty , The King shall his own have again , Sir . La , la , etc 3. What tho' we did Swear , to the Protestant Heir , And roundly Abjur'd the Pretender ; Our Oaths must give place , to the True Royal Raze , Or our High-Faith will want a Defender . La , la , etc 4. Who wou'd not rejoice at a Turn of the State , Which Rescu'd our Old Constitution ? From that Happy Perjod , we joyfully Date The Fallen of the Curs'd Revolution . La , la , etc 5. To begin with Resistance , Sachev'rel did say , 'Tis the Doctrine of Devils , and Hell , Sir ; But Passive-Obedience does now bear the Sway , As the Wise I ------ sh Bishops can tell , Sir . La , la , etc 6. Hereditary Right , which sav'd James the Just , From the Damnable Bill of Exclusion ; Will bring in his Son , as High Church Men do trust , To the Hannover-House's Confusion . La , la , etc 7. And to show that the Jacobite Interest rises , To High-Churchmen's great Consolation , The Pretender's Medals do bear double Prizes , And his Friends are in high Reputation . La , la , etc 8. While thus our Brave Priesthood with vigilant Care , Our Factions and Ferments do Nourish ; Old Lewis is sure to succeed in the War , And his Grandson's Sceptre must Flourish . La , la , etc 9. The Dutch shall be Ruin'd , the Whiggs shall be Damn'd , And Austria's House be Confounded ; The Gaul's shall Rejoice , while our Allies are Shamm'd , And our Quarrels with France are Compounded . La , la , etc 10. Now Pr ------ r , and M ------ r . with Pistoles in great store , From France are Arrived at Dover ; And ABEL may Roar , 'till his Lungs are quite Soar , That there can be no need of Hanover . La , la , etc 11. Great Treaties like ours , must infallibly bear , Since the Persons Employ'd , are so Able ; Tho' one was a Drawer , and t' other , some Swear Was the Politic Groom of a Stable . La , la , etc 12. Yet they're guided by one , who is very well known , And a thorough pac'd Statesman is reckon'd ; In the Read ------ r Address the Whiggs he knock'd down , With the 12th of King Charles the Second . La , la , etc 13. Thus bravely he Fights their Lewd Bill of Rights , And baffles their Damn'd Revolution ; By Statutes Repeal'd , Non-Resistance he heal'd , And to High-Church he gave Absolution . La , la , etc 14. Wide open to all a Subscription Book stands , With some Advocates at Edin --- borrow ; Where Perkin's true Friends do set to their Hands , If he'll come , they'll receive him to Morrow . La , la , etc 15. Good Mr. Dundass , has giv'n him a Pass , The Kingdom of Scotland to enter ; And the Duchess of Gordon , that brave Popish Lass , does Swear by the Mass , He may venture . La , la , etc 16. By such Great Examples , all People will find That the Jacobites are in no Peril For the Prince at St. Germains , to speak out their Mind , Or to Drink a Full Bumper to Sorrel . La , la , etc 17. Thus Lesley , and Hicks , with their Politic Tricks , Have gain'd on the Sense of the Nation ; The Dissenters are troubled , to find themselves bubbled , For Indulgence is no Toleration . La , la , etc 18. Their Barns are burned down , and their Teachers are Damn'd For Preaching in Tubs without Order ; The Silly Low-Church , will be left in the Lurch , And the Scotch Kirk drove out of our Borders . La , la , etc 19. Let Schismatics Pine , let Republicans Wine , And henceforth abandon these Nations ; While Tories Rejoice , and cry with one Voice , Obedience without Limitations . La , la , etc 20. Let our Trade go to Wreck , and all our Stocks Sink , While our High-Church Rides safe from all Danger ; Since Land's above Money , we have reason to think The QUEEN's-Brother will Conquer the Stranger . La , la , etc 21. Let the Whigs that love Trade , the South-Seas Invade , And there we will give 'em Debentures ; For the Money they've Lent , 'till the whole Sum be spent , And a Sponge wipe out all their Adventures . La , la , etc 22. They shall have for Director , their Germane Elector , Who certainly will not Play Booty ; He's too much in the Stock , the Project to Shock , Good PRINCESS SOPHIA Adieu t' you . La , la , etc Oxford , at the Theatre . M.DCC.XI . 