A SPEECH Made to his EXCELLENCY THE Lord General MONCK , AND THE COUNCIL of STATE , AT Goldsmiths Hall in London , The tenth day of April , 1660. At which time they were entertained by that honourable Company . After a Song in four parts , at the conclusion of a Chorus , Enter a Sea-Captain . LEt me make one too ; are you grown so stout , To contrive Peace , and leave the Seaman out ? Have you in those large Bowls which Plenty gave ye , Drank off the Ocean , and swallow'd the Navy ? You never think upon our Rocks and shelves , So you may snudge in quiet by yourselves ; Are not you Britains ? Is not Navigation The only Guard and Glory of the Nation ? Can you have Treasure brought without a Fleet ? What is it gilds Cheapside and Lumbard Street But our Sea trade ? By our cutting the curl'd Ocean you hold Commerce with all the World . Whence come your costly Carpettings , and Works That grace the Chambers of triumphant Turks , But from beyond-Sea ? Whence comes all your gold , For which , by some , both Law and Gospel's sold , But from beyond-Sea ? And wise men of trust Believe , if ever we have Peace again , it must Come from beyond-Sea ; And d' you go about To make a Peace , and leave the Main-Mast out ? But where's my Admiral ? Oh! I have spy'd him , His Merits are so clear no Clouds can hide him . I must go droll with him though , What Cheer heigh ? Up to the Ears in Custard , here's a fray Compounded without bloodshed ; these would be Good bitts upon a March , George , or at Sea : When , in the fury of tempestuous weather , we and our meat were pickled up together . Here are pure Quarters , Plenty keeps her spring [ I ] n London , 'Tis a City for a King . I came just now ashore to speak with you Directly up to Goldsmiths-Hall , I knew Where I should find you ou You love to settle With honest Hearts , and Men of the best Mettle . They love St. George , and yet they highly set A valve on St. * Dunstan , they'r well met , They both did put the Devil in a dump , One had him by the Nose , tother the Rump , And thereby hangs a tail . When I came hither , My business , and my boldness mixed together Made me thrust in : Where crowd you ? ( cry'd they all ) Quoth I , to speak with my LORD GENERAL , I'm one of his Sea Captains ; presently The Master and the generous Company All bad me welcome , and did strongly woo Me to bid you so , and this * Council too In these , or such like words ; they bade me say The Sunn's not welcomer to a dark day , Than you unto this City : for you are Temp'rate in Undertakings , Stout in War , Prudent in Councils , Quick when Dangers call , Secret in great designs , Honest in All : 'Twould make the greatest Rebel quite renounce ill , To see but such a Soldier , such a Council . God prosper both , and may you never cease , Till you have brought home the bright Princess Peace , That long-lost Lady : Could we make a Crown As rich as that was worn by Solomon , Rather than we would loose her , or displease her , ( I mean fair Peace ) wee'd give that Crown to seize her . * St. Dunstan was a Patron of the Goldsmiths . * To the Council of State . If any other Speech be printed , pretended to be spoken in Goldsmiths Hall , [ tO ] heigh are Counterfeits , and none true but this . Tho. Jordan . London , Printed for H. B. at the Gun in Ivy-lane , 1660. A SPEECH Made to his EXCELLENCY THE Lord General MONCK , AND THE COUNCIL of STATE , AT Goldsmiths Hall in London , The tenth day of April , 1660. At which time they were entertained by that honourable Company . After a Song in four parts , at the conclusion of a Chorus , Enter a Sea-Captain . LEt me make one too ; are you grown so stout , To contrive Peace , and leave the Seaman out ? Have you in those large Bowls which Plenty gave ye , Drank off the Ocean , and swallow'd the Navy ? You never think upon our Rocks and shelves , So you may snudge in quiet by yourselves ; Are not you Britains ? Is not Navigation The only Guard and Glory of the Nation ? Can you have Treasure brought without a Fleet ? What is it gilds Cheapside and Lumbard Street But our Sea trade ? By our cutting the curl'd Ocean you hold Commerce with all the World . Whence come your costly Carpettings , and Works That grace the Chambers of triumphant Turks , But from beyond-Sea ? Whence comes all your gold , For which , by some , both Law and Gospel's sold , But from beyond-Sea ? And wise men of trust Believe , if ever we have Peace again , it must Come from beyond-Sea ; And d' you go about To make a Peace , and leave the Main-Mast out ? But where's my Admiral ? Oh! I have spy'd him , His Merits are so clear no Clouds can hide him . I must go droll with him though , What Cheer heigh ? Up to the Ears in Custard , here's a fray Compounded without bloodshed ; these would be Good bitts upon a March , George , or at Sea : When , in the fury of tempestuous weather , we and our meat were pickled up together . Here are pure Quarters , Plenty keeps her spring [ I ] n London , 'Tis a City for a King . I came just now ashore to speak with you Directly up to Goldsmiths-Hall , I knew Where I should find you ou You love to settle With honest Hearts , and Men of the best Mettle . They love St. George , and yet they highly set A valve on St. * Dunstan , they'r well met , They both did put the Devil in a dump , One had him by the Nose , tother the Rump , And thereby hangs a tail . When I came hither , My business , and my boldness mixed together Made me thrust in : Where crowd you ? ( cry'd they all ) Quoth I , to speak with my LORD GENERAL , I'm one of his Sea Captains ; presently The Master and the generous Company All bad me welcome , and did strongly woo Me to bid you so , and this * Council too In these , or such like words ; they bade me say The Sunn's not welcomer to a dark day , Than you unto this City : for you are Temp'rate in Undertakings , Stout in War , Prudent in Councils , Quick when Dangers call , Secret in great designs , Honest in All : 'Twould make the greatest Rebel quite renounce ill , To see but such a Soldier , such a Council . God prosper both , and may you never cease , Till you have brought home the bright Princess Peace , That long-lost Lady : Could we make a Crown As rich as that was worn by Solomon , Rather than we would loose her , or displease her , ( I mean fair Peace ) wee'd give that Crown to seize her . * St. Dunstan was a Patron of the Goldsmiths . * To the Council of State . If any other Speech be printed , pretended to be spoken in Goldsmiths Hall , [ tO ] heigh are Counterfeits , and none true but this . Tho. Jordan . London , Printed for H. B. at the Gun in Ivy-lane , 1660. 