Captain Kid's Farewell to the Seas , or the Famous Pirate's Lament . To the Tune of , Coming Down , MY Name is Captain Kid who has sail'd , etc My Name is Captain Kid , who has sailed , My Name is Captain Kid , what the Laws did still forbid , Unluckily I did while I sail'd . Upon the Ocean wide , when I sail'd , etc Upon the Ocean wide , when I sail'd , etc upon the Ocean wide , I robb'd on e'ery side . With most Ambitious Pride , when I sail'd , My Faults I will display while I sail'd , etc My Faults I will display while I sail'd , etc My Faults I will display , Committed day by day Many long Leagues from shore . when I sail'd etc Many long Leagues from shore , when I sail'd Many long Leagues from shore , I murder'd William More , And laid him in his gore , when I sail'd . Because a word he spoke when I sail'd etc Because a word he spoke when I sail'd , Because a word he spoke , I with a bucket broke His Scull at one sad stroke while I sail'd . I strook with a good will when I sail'd , etc , I strook with a good will when I sail'd , I strook with a good will , And did the Gunner Kill As being cruel still when I sail'd . A Quida Merchant then while I sail'd , etc A Quida Merchant then while I sail'd ; A Quida Merchant then , I robbed of Hundreds ten . Assisted by my Men while I sail'd A Banker's Ship of France while I sail'd , etc A Banker's Ship of France while I sail'd , a Banker's Ship of France , Before us did advance . I seized her by chance while I sail'd . Full fourteen Ships I see when I sail'd etc , Full fourteen Ships I see when I sail'd , Full fourteen Ships I see , Merchant's of high degree , They were too hard for me , when I sail'd etc we steer'd from Found to Found while we sail'd We steer'd from Found to Found while we sail'd We steer'd from Found to Found , A Moorish Ship we found , Her Men we stripped and bound while we sail'd Upon the Ocean Seas while we sail'd , etc , Upon the Ocean Seas while we sail'd , Upon the Ocean Seas , A warlike Portuguese , In short , did us displease while we sail'd . At famous Mallabar when we sail'd , etc , At famous Mallabar when we sail'd , At famous Mallabar We went ashore each Tar , And rob'd the Natives there when we sail'd . Then after this we chas'd while we sail'd etc Then after this we chas'd while we sail'd , Then after this we chas'd A Rich Armenian , grac'd , With Wealth which we embrac'd , while we sail'd Many Moorish Ships we took while we sail'd Many Moorish Ships we took while we sail'd Many Moorish Ships we took , We did still for plunder look , All Conscience we forsook while we sail'd . I Captain Cullifoord while I sailed , etc I Captain Cullifoord while I sail'd I Captain Cullifoord Did many Merchant's board , Which did much Wealth afford , while we sail'd Two hundred Bars of Gold , while we sail'd , Two hundred Bars of Gold while we sail'd , Two hundred Bars of Gold And Rix Dollars manifold , We seized uncontroul'd while we sailed . St. John a Ship of Fame when we sail'd etc St. John a Ship of Fame when we sail'd St John a Ship of Fame , We plundered when she came With more that I could name when we sail'd We taken was at last and must die . etc , We taken was at last and must die , We taken were at last , And into Prison cast Now Sentence being passed we must die . Tho we have reign'd a while we must die etc , Though we have reign'd a while we must die Though we have reign'd a while While Fortune seem'd to smile , Now on the British Isle we must die , Farewell the Ocean main , we must die etc , Farewell the Ocean main we , must die , Farewell the Ocean main , The Coast of France or Spain We ne're shall see again , we must die . From Newgate now in Carts we most go , etc From Newgate now in Carts With sad and heavy hearts , To have our due Deserts we must go . Some thousands they will flock when we die , Some thousands they will flock when we die , Some thousands they will flock To Execution Duck Where we must stand the shock , and must die . FINIS Captain Kid's Farewell to the Seas , or the Famous Pirate's Lament . To the Tune of , Coming Down , MY Name is Captain Kid who has sail'd , etc My Name is Captain Kid , who has sailed , My Name is Captain Kid , what the Laws did still forbid , Unluckily I did while I sail'd . Upon the Ocean wide , when I sail'd , etc Upon the Ocean wide , when I sail'd , etc upon the Ocean wide , I robb'd on e'ery side . With most Ambitious Pride , when I sail'd , My Faults I will display while I sail'd , etc My Faults I will display while I sail'd , etc My Faults I will display , Committed day by day Many long Leagues from shore . when I sail'd etc Many long Leagues from shore , when I sail'd Many long Leagues from shore , I murder'd William More , And laid him in his gore , when I sail'd . Because a word he spoke when I sail'd etc Because a word he spoke when I sail'd , Because a word he spoke , I with a bucket broke His Scull at one sad stroke while I sail'd . I strook with a good will when I sail'd , etc , I strook with a good will when I sail'd , I strook with a good will , And did the Gunner Kill As being cruel still when I sail'd . A Quida Merchant then while I sail'd , etc A Quida Merchant then while I sail'd ; A Quida Merchant then , I robbed of Hundreds ten . Assisted by my Men while I sail'd A Banker's Ship of France while I sail'd , etc A Banker's Ship of France while I sail'd , a Banker's Ship of France , Before us did advance . I seized her by chance while I sail'd . Full fourteen Ships I see when I sail'd etc , Full fourteen Ships I see when I sail'd , Full fourteen Ships I see , Merchant's of high degree , They were too hard for me , when I sail'd etc we steer'd from Found to Found while we sail'd We steer'd from Found to Found while we sail'd We steer'd from Found to Found , A Moorish Ship we found , Her Men we stripped and bound while we sail'd Upon the Ocean Seas while we sail'd , etc , Upon the Ocean Seas while we sail'd , Upon the Ocean Seas , A warlike Portuguese , In short , did us displease while we sail'd . At famous Mallabar when we sail'd , etc , At famous Mallabar when we sail'd , At famous Mallabar We went ashore each Tar , And rob'd the Natives there when we sail'd . Then after this we chas'd while we sail'd etc Then after this we chas'd while we sail'd , Then after this we chas'd A Rich Armenian , grac'd , With Wealth which we embrac'd , while we sail'd Many Moorish Ships we took while we sail'd Many Moorish Ships we took while we sail'd Many Moorish Ships we took , We did still for plunder look , All Conscience we forsook while we sail'd . I Captain Cullifoord while I sailed , etc I Captain Cullifoord while I sail'd I Captain Cullifoord Did many Merchant's board , Which did much Wealth afford , while we sail'd Two hundred Bars of Gold , while we sail'd , Two hundred Bars of Gold while we sail'd , Two hundred Bars of Gold And Rix Dollars manifold , We seized uncontroul'd while we sailed . St. John a Ship of Fame when we sail'd etc St. John a Ship of Fame when we sail'd St John a Ship of Fame , We plundered when she came With more that I could name when we sail'd We taken was at last and must die . etc , We taken was at last and must die , We taken were at last , And into Prison cast Now Sentence being passed we must die . Tho we have reign'd a while we must die etc , Though we have reign'd a while we must die Though we have reign'd a while While Fortune seem'd to smile , Now on the British Isle we must die , Farewell the Ocean main , we must die etc , Farewell the Ocean main we , must die , Farewell the Ocean main , The Coast of France or Spain We ne're shall see again , we must die . From Newgate now in Carts we most go , etc From Newgate now in Carts With sad and heavy hearts , To have our due Deserts we must go . Some thousands they will flock when we die , Some thousands they will flock when we die , Some thousands they will flock To Execution Duck Where we must stand the shock , and must die . FINIS 