A Serious Discourse between two lovers . This Song will teach young Men to woo , And show young Maidens what to do ; Nay it will learn them to be cunning too . To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no Light , Or , Deep in love . By John Wade . MY pretty little Rogue do but come hither , With thee i'le not collogue , if thou'lt consider The pains for thee i've took , Cupid so wounds me , But now i'me in the Brook , if thou dost not love me . I'le forsake all my Kin , Father and Mother , I valve not a pin , or any other ; 'Tis only thy sweet face the which does move me , And I think thou hast some grace , and thou'lt love me . Riches i'le promise none , nor no great treasure , Because i'le do no wrong to thee my pleasure : But all that e're I have , thou shalt command it , And i'le maintain thee brave , thou'st understand it . My Word nor yet my Oath shall not be broken , Then take this sugared kiss , in sign of Loves token . My heart is firm and true , then let pity move thee , I'll not seek for a new , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Good Sir I thank you fine for what is spoken , But all's not gold that shines , and as for your token , I shall not it receive , though you do prove me , My joy thou'lt ne'r bereave , for I cannot love thee . The Second Part , To the Same Tune . Young Men can swear and lie , but who will believe them , All goodness they defy , and it ne'r grieves them , Only to tempt a Maid by their delusion , Therefore I am afraid 'twil breed confusion . A Maid had need beware that does mean honest , Lest she falls in a snare when they do promise : For they will vow and swear they'l never leave you , But when they know your mind , then they'l deceive you . Therefore I will be wise , lest I be taken , In a Fools Paradise , and then be forsaken . I'll put no trust in man , to one nor other , Let them do what they can , if't were my brother . The Man. My Dear you do but jest , I may boldly speak it , Of all I love thee best , prithee so take it . There is no flesh alive ever shall move me , If thou wilt be my Wife , i'le dearly love thee . Servants on thee shall tend , and come at thy pleasure , For I will be thy friend to bring thee treasure . What canst thou wish for more , then do but prove me , And thou shalt plainly find how dear I love thee . For means thou shalt not want , if I do gain thee , I have good house and land , for to maintain thee . I have good Sheep i'th field , and Beast's that's proving ; All is at thy command , if thou'lt be loving . I'le give thee gold my dear , I'le give thee money , Then thou need'st not to fear , I'le be thy honey : No Lady in the Land ever shall move me , Thou'st have my heart and hand if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Your words are very fair , I much commend you , Seeing you are so fair , thus I'le befriend you : Though at first I was coy , 'twas but to prove thee , Yet now I'le be thy joy , and dearly love thee . The young man hearing this , by the hand took her , The bargain seal'd with a Kiss , he ne'r forsook her . But strait to Church they went things were so carried . He gave his Love content , when they was Married . Thus all young Maids may find young men are honest , If they bear the like mind , true to their promise , But if they falsify , who can believe them ? And when they have lost their loves then it does grieve them . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-Smithfiled . A Serious Discourse between two lovers . This Song will teach young Men to woo , And show young Maidens what to do ; Nay it will learn them to be cunning too . To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no Light , Or , Deep in love . By John Wade . MY pretty little Rogue do but come hither , With thee i'le not collogue , if thou'lt consider The pains for thee i've took , Cupid so wounds me , But now i'me in the Brook , if thou dost not love me . I'le forsake all my Kin , Father and Mother , I valve not a pin , or any other ; 'Tis only thy sweet face the which does move me , And I think thou hast some grace , and thou'lt love me . Riches i'le promise none , nor no great treasure , Because i'le do no wrong to thee my pleasure : But all that e're I have , thou shalt command it , And i'le maintain thee brave , thou'st understand it . My Word nor yet my Oath shall not be broken , Then take this sugared kiss , in sign of Loves token . My heart is firm and true , then let pity move thee , I'll not seek for a new , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Good Sir I thank you fine for what is spoken , But all's not gold that shines , and as for your token , I shall not it receive , though you do prove me , My joy thou'lt ne'r bereave , for I cannot love thee . The Second Part , To the Same Tune . Young Men can swear and lie , but who will believe them , All goodness they defy , and it ne'r grieves them , Only to tempt a Maid by their delusion , Therefore I am afraid 'twil breed confusion . A Maid had need beware that does mean honest , Lest she falls in a snare when they do promise : For they will vow and swear they'l never leave you , But when they know your mind , then they'l deceive you . Therefore I will be wise , lest I be taken , In a Fools Paradise , and then be forsaken . I'll put no trust in man , to one nor other , Let them do what they can , if't were my brother . The Man. My Dear you do but jest , I may boldly speak it , Of all I love thee best , prithee so take it . There is no flesh alive ever shall move me , If thou wilt be my Wife , i'le dearly love thee . Servants on thee shall tend , and come at thy pleasure , For I will be thy friend to bring thee treasure . What canst thou wish for more , then do but prove me , And thou shalt plainly find how dear I love thee . For means thou shalt not want , if I do gain thee , I have good house and land , for to maintain thee . I have good Sheep i'th field , and Beast's that's proving ; All is at thy command , if thou'lt be loving . I'le give thee gold my dear , I'le give thee money , Then thou need'st not to fear , I'le be thy honey : No Lady in the Land ever shall move me , Thou'st have my heart and hand if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Your words are very fair , I much commend you , Seeing you are so fair , thus I'le befriend you : Though at first I was coy , 'twas but to prove thee , Yet now I'le be thy joy , and dearly love thee . The young man hearing this , by the hand took her , The bargain seal'd with a Kiss , he ne'r forsook her . But strait to Church they went things were so carried . He gave his Love content , when they was Married . Thus all young Maids may find young men are honest , If they bear the like mind , true to their promise , But if they falsify , who can believe them ? And when they have lost their loves then it does grieve them . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-Smithfiled . 