Dr Bungey's RECANTATION . Much against his Inclination , Were it not for Preservation Of his Odd Precarious Station . LOng I liv'd in Dark Privation 'Mongst the Offal of the Nation , Not a Man of Observation , Wou'd admit my Conversation , 'Till at length a Reformation Was Resolv'd , by Combination Of some Men , whose quick Sensation Told Them , to Infatuation They must owe their whole Creation ; These to Me made Application With and Ample Toleration , For all Sly Insinuation , Cunning , Trick , Equivocation , And most solemn Protestation With a Mental Reservation . I who knew my Reputation , Not one Sous in Valuation , Yielded to their Demonstration . Being call'd on for Probation Of my Parts on this Occasion , I aloud made Proclamation ; That Impending Desolation , From Fanatic Obduration , Threatened us with Extirpation , While false Brethren's Retrogation , Joyn'd with their Abomination . Summon'd for Prevarication , In my insolent Oration , By the Realms Representation , My fast Friends such Mitigation Offer'd to each Accusation ; And , to move the Ladies Passion , Penn'd me such a Declaration , Which my soft Pronounciation Put so wondered a Grace on , That upon th' Imagination , 'T work'd like Transubstantiation ; For tho' Fam'd for Violation Of each sacred Obligation , Avarice , Pride , Adulation , Envy , Malice , Profanation , And all Marks of Reprobation ; In a Moments Variation , From the Blackest Reputation , I arose ( by Transformation ) A White , Innocent Oblation : Nay their Praise to Adoration Rais'd , They call'd me their Salvation . But at length th' Exorbitation , ( Swelling , to Impostumation ) Broke in Stench and Suffocation : And my Virtue's Aggregation Vanish'd like and Exhalation . Now 'twas found my Affectation For the Churche's sure Foundation , Was all Trick and Machination , To induce a Speculation , Might secure the Exaltation Of some Men , then out of Fashion . Tables turn'd thus to amaze one . Were I blessed but with Persuasion , M -- ta --- we wou'd let me graze on , I wou'd to Life's Termination Be --- ( by Heaven ) for Moderation . Printed , for J. Spoorn , near the Strand . Dr Bungey's RECANTATION . Much against his Inclination , Were it not for Preservation Of his Odd Precarious Station . LOng I liv'd in Dark Privation 'Mongst the Offal of the Nation , Not a Man of Observation , Wou'd admit my Conversation , 'Till at length a Reformation Was Resolv'd , by Combination Of some Men , whose quick Sensation Told Them , to Infatuation They must owe their whole Creation ; These to Me made Application With and Ample Toleration , For all Sly Insinuation , Cunning , Trick , Equivocation , And most solemn Protestation With a Mental Reservation . I who knew my Reputation , Not one Sous in Valuation , Yielded to their Demonstration . Being call'd on for Probation Of my Parts on this Occasion , I aloud made Proclamation ; That Impending Desolation , From Fanatic Obduration , Threatened us with Extirpation , While false Brethren's Retrogation , Joyn'd with their Abomination . Summon'd for Prevarication , In my insolent Oration , By the Realms Representation , My fast Friends such Mitigation Offer'd to each Accusation ; And , to move the Ladies Passion , Penn'd me such a Declaration , Which my soft Pronounciation Put so wondered a Grace on , That upon th' Imagination , 'T work'd like Transubstantiation ; For tho' Fam'd for Violation Of each sacred Obligation , Avarice , Pride , Adulation , Envy , Malice , Profanation , And all Marks of Reprobation ; In a Moments Variation , From the Blackest Reputation , I arose ( by Transformation ) A White , Innocent Oblation : Nay their Praise to Adoration Rais'd , They call'd me their Salvation . But at length th' Exorbitation , ( Swelling , to Impostumation ) Broke in Stench and Suffocation : And my Virtue's Aggregation Vanish'd like and Exhalation . Now 'twas found my Affectation For the Churche's sure Foundation , Was all Trick and Machination , To induce a Speculation , Might secure the Exaltation Of some Men , then out of Fashion . Tables turn'd thus to amaze one . Were I blessed but with Persuasion , M -- ta --- we wou'd let me graze on , I wou'd to Life's Termination Be --- ( by Heaven ) for Moderation . Printed , for J. Spoorn , near the Strand . 