The YOUNG-MANS Unfortunate Destiny . It being the True Lovers Lamentable Overthrow . When they devise to Tyrannise , It often proves true , That in this Snare they do impair Both Life and Fortune too . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . NEar a Pleasant flowing River , there I with my Love did meet , Where I often did endeavour , with kind arguments so sweet ; As I tried , she denied , all that ever I could say , Would not do it , now I rue it , love will cast my Life away . I in Love am now abused , and requited with disdain , True and Loyal , yet refused , sure thy heart will break with pain : Here in anguish , do I languish , being thus oppressed with care , Do not grieve me , Love , reprieve me , why should I for thee despair ? Well , I am resolv'd to wander , and to finish out my days , Though we parted are asunder , love , I still will speak thy Praise ; Sure a sweeter fairer Creature , nature never yet did frame , Yet my jewel is so cruel , I must now the Land refrain . While he thus was discontented , and perplexed in his mind , Many Sighs and Tears was vented , seeing she was so unkind : To reject him , disrespect him , now he well did understand , He should never , gain her favour , he resolv'd to leave the Land. Love farewell , I now must leave thee , and will cross the Ocean Main , Nothing in the world does grieve me , but the thoughts of thy disdain : Now we sever , surely never , will I on a Beauty gaze , As a Stranger , and a ranger , will I finish out my days . Then aboard a Ship he enter'd , bidding now his Love adieu , On the Ocean wide he ventur'd , where much dangers did ensue ; When oppressed , and distressed , on the mighty Ocean Sea , He replied , often cried , now my Love hath ruin'd me . Had I but my dear enjoyed , then were I in happy State , Now alas I am destroyed , by the cruel hand of Fate ; I am wounded and Surrounded , with the thoughts of her disdain , I desire to expire , rather then to live in pain . While he was his thoughts condoling , thinking on his only dear , They on mighty Waves was rolling , 'twixt the thoughts of hope and fear ; Then his trouble waxed double , by the Rovers of the Sea , They betray'd them , and convey'd them e'ry man to Slavery . Now his sorrows are increased , none but by the Silent Grave Can he hope to be released , but to live and die a Slave ; Never ceasing , but increasing , in the anguish of his mind , Woeful greeting , and repeating , I shall never comfort find . At the length he was befriended , by the Fatal Stroke of death , All his grief and sorrow ended , when he did resign his breath : When she heard , then she feared , she had wrought his overthrow , Then she Acted , like Distracted , as her Answer plain will show . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . The YOUNG-MANS Unfortunate Destiny . It being the True Lovers Lamentable Overthrow . When they devise to Tyrannise , It often proves true , That in this Snare they do impair Both Life and Fortune too . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . NEar a Pleasant flowing River , there I with my Love did meet , Where I often did endeavour , with kind arguments so sweet ; As I tried , she denied , all that ever I could say , Would not do it , now I rue it , love will cast my Life away . I in Love am now abused , and requited with disdain , True and Loyal , yet refused , sure thy heart will break with pain : Here in anguish , do I languish , being thus oppressed with care , Do not grieve me , Love , reprieve me , why should I for thee despair ? Well , I am resolv'd to wander , and to finish out my days , Though we parted are asunder , love , I still will speak thy Praise ; Sure a sweeter fairer Creature , nature never yet did frame , Yet my jewel is so cruel , I must now the Land refrain . While he thus was discontented , and perplexed in his mind , Many Sighs and Tears was vented , seeing she was so unkind : To reject him , disrespect him , now he well did understand , He should never , gain her favour , he resolv'd to leave the Land. Love farewell , I now must leave thee , and will cross the Ocean Main , Nothing in the world does grieve me , but the thoughts of thy disdain : Now we sever , surely never , will I on a Beauty gaze , As a Stranger , and a ranger , will I finish out my days . Then aboard a Ship he enter'd , bidding now his Love adieu , On the Ocean wide he ventur'd , where much dangers did ensue ; When oppressed , and distressed , on the mighty Ocean Sea , He replied , often cried , now my Love hath ruin'd me . Had I but my dear enjoyed , then were I in happy State , Now alas I am destroyed , by the cruel hand of Fate ; I am wounded and Surrounded , with the thoughts of her disdain , I desire to expire , rather then to live in pain . While he was his thoughts condoling , thinking on his only dear , They on mighty Waves was rolling , 'twixt the thoughts of hope and fear ; Then his trouble waxed double , by the Rovers of the Sea , They betray'd them , and convey'd them e'ry man to Slavery . Now his sorrows are increased , none but by the Silent Grave Can he hope to be released , but to live and die a Slave ; Never ceasing , but increasing , in the anguish of his mind , Woeful greeting , and repeating , I shall never comfort find . At the length he was befriended , by the Fatal Stroke of death , All his grief and sorrow ended , when he did resign his breath : When she heard , then she feared , she had wrought his overthrow , Then she Acted , like Distracted , as her Answer plain will show . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . 