Upon the Stately Structure OF Bow-Church and Steeple , Burned , An. 1666. Rebuilt , 1679. OR A Second POEM upon NOTHING ! LOok how the Country-Hobbs with wonder flock To see the City-crest , turn'd Weathercock ! Which with each shifting Gale , veres to and from ; London has now god twelve Strings to her Bow ! The Wind's South-East , and straight the Dragon russels His brazen wings , to court the Breeze from Brussels ! The Wind's at North ! and now his Hissing fork , Whirls round , to meet a flattering gale from York ! Boxing the Compass , with each freshing Gale , But still to London turns his threatening Tail . But stay ! what's there ; I spy a stranger thing ; Our Red-cross brooded by the Dragon's wing ! The wing is warm ; but O! beware the sting ! Poor English-Cross , expos'd to winds , and weathers , Forc't to seek shelter in the Dragon's feathers ! Ne're had old Room so rare a Piece to brag on , A Temple built to Great Bell , and the Dragon ! While yet undaunted Protestants , dare hope , They that will worship Bell , shall wear the Rope . O how our English Chronicles will shine ! Burn't , sixty six ; Rebuilt , in seventy nine . When Jacob Hall on his High Rope shows tricks , The Dragon flutters ; the Lord Mayor's Horse , kicks ; The Cheapside-crowds , and Pageants scarcely know Which most t' admire , Hall , Hobbyhorse , or Bow ! But what mad Frenzy set your Zeal on fire , ( Grave Citizens ! ) to Raise Immortal Spire On Seacoal Basis ? which will sooner yield Matter to Burn a Temple , than to Built ! What the Coals built , the Ashes bury ! no men Of wisdom , but would dread the threatening Omen ! But say ( Proud Dragon ! ) now preferr'd so High , What Marvels from that Prospect dost thou spy ? Westward thou seest , and seeing hat'st the Walls Of , sometime Rev'rend , now Regenerate , Pauls , Thy envious eyes , such glories cannot brook , But as the Devil once o're Lincoln , look : And envys Poison , will thy Bowels Tear Sooner than Daniel's Dose , of Pitch , and Hair ! Then Eastward , to avoid that wounding sighed , Thy Glaring eyes upon the Mum-glass , light . Adorn'd with Monstrous forms to clear the scope , How much thou art out-dragon'd by the Pope . Ah fools ! to dress a Monument of woe In whistling Silks , that should in Sackcloth , go ! Nay strangely wise , our Senators appear To built That , and a Bedlam in a year , That if the Mum-glass crack , they may inherit And Hospital becoming their great merit ! To Royal Westminster , next turn thine eye ; Perhaps a Parliament thou mayest espy , Dragons of old gave Oracles at Room ; Then Prophesy , their Day , their Date , and Doom And if thy Visual Ray can reach the Main ; Tell's when the Duke , new gone , returns again ! Facing about ; next view our Guildhall well , Where Reverend Fox-furrs charm'd by potent spell Of Elephants , ( turn'd wrong side outward ) dare Applaud the Plays ; and yet hiss out the Player : Player ! whose wise Zeal for City , Country , King , Shall to all points of the wide Compass ring While Bow has Bells' , or Royal Thames a Spring ! Thy Roving Eye perhaps from Hague may send's How the New League , has made old Foes , new Friends : But let substantial witness , Credence give it , Or Ne're believe me , if the House believe it ! If true , I fear too late ! France at one sup , ( Like Pearls dissolv'd in Cleopatra's Cup ) Trade , Empire , Neatherlands has swallowed up ! But hark ! The Dragon speaks from Brazen Mouth , Whose words , though wind , are spoken in Good south ! To you of Rattling fame , and great esteem ; The higher placed , the less you ought to seem ! To you of noble souls , and gallant minds , Learn to outface ( with me ) the Huffing winds ! To tim'rous feeble spirits , that live beneath ; Learn not of me to turn with every breath ! To those who like ( Chameleons ) live on Air ; Popular Praise is thin Consumptive fare ! To you who Steeple upon Steeple set , Cut my Coxcomb , if e're to Heaven you get . Upon the Stately Structure OF Bow-Church and Steeple , Burned , An. 1666. Rebuilt , 1679. OR A Second POEM upon NOTHING ! LOok how the Country-Hobbs with wonder flock To see the City-crest , turn'd Weathercock ! Which with each shifting Gale , veres to and from ; London has now god twelve Strings to her Bow ! The Wind's South-East , and straight the Dragon russels His brazen wings , to court the Breeze from Brussels ! The Wind's at North ! and now his Hissing fork , Whirls round , to meet a flattering gale from York ! Boxing the Compass , with each freshing Gale , But still to London turns his threatening Tail . But stay ! what's there ; I spy a stranger thing ; Our Red-cross brooded by the Dragon's wing ! The wing is warm ; but O! beware the sting ! Poor English-Cross , expos'd to winds , and weathers , Forc't to seek shelter in the Dragon's feathers ! Ne're had old Room so rare a Piece to brag on , A Temple built to Great Bell , and the Dragon ! While yet undaunted Protestants , dare hope , They that will worship Bell , shall wear the Rope . O how our English Chronicles will shine ! Burn't , sixty six ; Rebuilt , in seventy nine . When Jacob Hall on his High Rope shows tricks , The Dragon flutters ; the Lord Mayor's Horse , kicks ; The Cheapside-crowds , and Pageants scarcely know Which most t' admire , Hall , Hobbyhorse , or Bow ! But what mad Frenzy set your Zeal on fire , ( Grave Citizens ! ) to Raise Immortal Spire On Seacoal Basis ? which will sooner yield Matter to Burn a Temple , than to Built ! What the Coals built , the Ashes bury ! no men Of wisdom , but would dread the threatening Omen ! But say ( Proud Dragon ! ) now preferr'd so High , What Marvels from that Prospect dost thou spy ? Westward thou seest , and seeing hat'st the Walls Of , sometime Rev'rend , now Regenerate , Pauls , Thy envious eyes , such glories cannot brook , But as the Devil once o're Lincoln , look : And envys Poison , will thy Bowels Tear Sooner than Daniel's Dose , of Pitch , and Hair ! Then Eastward , to avoid that wounding sighed , Thy Glaring eyes upon the Mum-glass , light . Adorn'd with Monstrous forms to clear the scope , How much thou art out-dragon'd by the Pope . Ah fools ! to dress a Monument of woe In whistling Silks , that should in Sackcloth , go ! Nay strangely wise , our Senators appear To built That , and a Bedlam in a year , That if the Mum-glass crack , they may inherit And Hospital becoming their great merit ! To Royal Westminster , next turn thine eye ; Perhaps a Parliament thou mayest espy , Dragons of old gave Oracles at Room ; Then Prophesy , their Day , their Date , and Doom And if thy Visual Ray can reach the Main ; Tell's when the Duke , new gone , returns again ! Facing about ; next view our Guildhall well , Where Reverend Fox-furrs charm'd by potent spell Of Elephants , ( turn'd wrong side outward ) dare Applaud the Plays ; and yet hiss out the Player : Player ! whose wise Zeal for City , Country , King , Shall to all points of the wide Compass ring While Bow has Bells' , or Royal Thames a Spring ! Thy Roving Eye perhaps from Hague may send's How the New League , has made old Foes , new Friends : But let substantial witness , Credence give it , Or Ne're believe me , if the House believe it ! If true , I fear too late ! France at one sup , ( Like Pearls dissolv'd in Cleopatra's Cup ) Trade , Empire , Neatherlands has swallowed up ! But hark ! The Dragon speaks from Brazen Mouth , Whose words , though wind , are spoken in Good south ! To you of Rattling fame , and great esteem ; The higher placed , the less you ought to seem ! To you of noble souls , and gallant minds , Learn to outface ( with me ) the Huffing winds ! To tim'rous feeble spirits , that live beneath ; Learn not of me to turn with every breath ! To those who like ( Chameleons ) live on Air ; Popular Praise is thin Consumptive fare ! To you who Steeple upon Steeple set , Cut my Coxcomb , if e're to Heaven you get . 