THE CRUEL COOPER , OF RATCLIFF . NEAR Ratcliff Cross liv'd a cooper there , Who had a vitruos wife , comely and fair , He by this prudent woman had a son , Beside this youth they children ne'er had one , Though wise and prudent , yet this cruel man , Did oftimes beatrice her with a cruel hand , As he did one day , with grief of heart , The youth with tears did take his mother's part . Cries he , Father , I'm afraid you will , With kicks and cuffs my tender mother kill , Hearing these words he then his son did beatrice , And that night turn'd him into the street , Saying , if thou com'st here any more , I'll break thy bones , he then lock'd the door , In the wide street this lad did lay all night , And in the morning came when it was light . But when this man look'd and saw his son , In a vast passion he to him did run , And with and axe knoc'd him on the crown , Which laid the youth along upon the ground . Being thus serv'd in tears he did lament , Then he god up and out of doors he went , Saying , if I should any longer stay , He in his wrath will take my life away . And prevent what dangers may ensue , Father and mother he bids both adieu ; And having knowledge of his father's trade , Went Cooper's mate to Turkey it is said . He lik'd the country so well we find The ship came back . and left the lad behind ; He plac'd himself with a native to dwell , Whose family lov'd him very well . Tho' young in years he was grown very tall , And of a comely countenance withal ; The native damsel did him much admire , And to enjoy him she had a vast desire His master kept him for his servant man , And in a short time , by death's destroying hand ; His master happened to trip away , Who being dead the young man boar the sway . His mistress lov'd him as she did her life And in a short time was made his lawful wife ; She was prodigious rich we understand , And she had many slaves at her command . Now I will leave him for a little while , With Providence on him and her to smile , And in the next part some enquiry make , What sort of life this cruel sire does take , Near Radcliff Cross he lived years this known And to his wife he was a cruel one ; And in process of time death did them part , And 'tis supposed this man broke her heart , And after her death he could not thrive at all , Day after day he down at heels did fallen , And by degrees this man was brought so low , For debt himself he was afraid to show , The bailiff waited for him day and night , He knowing of the same kept out of sighed , And to prevent his going into jail , In a merchantman he unto sea did sail . Thus he for debt was forc'd to fly from home , And on the raging seas where billows foam To their great grief , this man and twenty more , Were carried pris'ners to the Turkish shore It happened so , as we understand , They were made slaves unto his son's command ; Full half a year in slavery they had been . In all which time his son he had not seen , This cooper he was aged sixty two , Who was the oldest of the ship's crew ; Being stiff with age his task could not perform , By which he suffered many a heavy blow . The task master to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed ; Upon a time he lash'd him so one day , He could no longer stand , but down did lay , Being laid down the taskmaster did go , And gave the head master this to know ; Crying Sir , your slave he is and aged man , Will not perform his task do all that I can . He tells me plainly , that his work is done , When , hearing this , the head master his son , Went out among the slaves , where he found , His aged father lying on the ground . Not knowing him with great severity , He lash'd his father very grievously , Which made him cry , O , Sir , my flesh is very soar , Do hold thy hand , and strike me no more The task is hard your servant puts on me , What can I do that I am most free , To suffer this I'm not able to live , Kill me outright and I will you forgive Hearing these words his son did him view , And said tell me what countryman are you ? His answer was I came from Old England , I am a cooper , Sir , from fair London . My name is Robert Stark , 'tis known right well I was a man in great repute did dwell , But as it prov'd fortune frowned on me , Now 'tis my lot your suffering slave to be . Have you no family , he replied no ; I buried a wife seven years ago , And I had a son a hopeful child was he , Three years before her death he went from me . I have not herd from him now all the while , I cruel was both to my wife and child , And I do really think now from my heart , 'Tis now for my cruelty , I thus do smart , Now hearing this , his son with grief was fill'd , And tears like water that was finely still'd , Ran down his cheeks amain tear after tear , To think that he had lash'd his father dear . Then he aside this taskmaster did call , And said , do not abuse this man at all , He is my father , but don't let him know , I am his son . Then home he did go And to his closet he in private went , And there with bitter cries did soar lament , At length by chance his wife did him hear , Who said what makes you so grieve my dear . His answer was to grieve great cause I have , For my own father is become my slave ; Not knowing him I lash'd him o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the curse of God should light on me But what I did it was innocently . O , wife what shall I do ? my heart does bleed , Do let my father come to me with speed , They sent for him and when he came there , They of his tender flesh did take great care , His bleeding wounds were anointed with oil , And the poor man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice linen , fine and soft , And other costly things to him were brought , And in these garments when he was array'd , To them with tears lift up his eyes and said . Lord what am I more than another slave , That I such favour of my master have , Blessed be his name that my friend does stand , To pity me thus in a foreign land . Hearing these words his son could not refrain ; His tears from falling down , and wept amain , He said , the man , who thus has for you done , Behold , he is your dear and only son . I'm grieved to think that I proved so severe ; To lay my hands upon my father dear , But God will pardon me , because I did not know that thou my father was . Hearing these words like one struck in amaze , He with a blush then on his son did gaze , Saying , are you my son ? ---- alas ! alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My son , my son , I'm glad thy face to see , But what astonishment is here for me , That I , who beatrice my child quite out of door , Should thus be forc'd his favour to implore , Father , the Lord did these things foresee , That you should come your child's slave to be , And God was pleas'd these things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud mortals too . The Lord has plac'd us here to live and reign , To be thy friends to ease thee of thy pain , I'll succour thee till death , and for thy sake , I of my native slaves great care will take . He cherish'd him oftimes , but on a day , His wife was pleas'd then these words to say , Husband , because he was cruel unto you , I ne'er shall love your father , that is true I do not care that he should here remain , From whence he came let him return again , And unto him we will some riches give , Enough to cherish him while he does live . For quietness sake he made this reply , But turn'd him round and wept most bitterly , To think that he must from his father part Grief like a spear stuck him unto the heart . Then in short time his father left the shore , And in a merchantman ship he did come o'er , Again to England , and did bring to town As much in riches as five thousand pounds . He ow'd a hundred pounds , which he paid , When being out of debt , these words he said , First my dear God , I give thanks to thee , Next for my child , my prayers shall be , For had it been another , I deserv'd , In slavery till death , I must have serv'd , And ne'er had met one in that distant place , Thus to commiserate my wretched case . Now to conclude young men let these lines , Be well engrav'd in your hearts and minds That is to serve the Lord and shun the devil . And like this young man still do good for evil . Printed and sold by J. Pitts , NO . 14 , Great St. Andrew-street , seven Dials . Price One Penny THE CRUEL COOPER , OF RATCLIFF . NEAR Ratcliff Cross liv'd a cooper there , Who had a vitruos wife , comely and fair , He by this prudent woman had a son , Beside this youth they children ne'er had one , Though wise and prudent , yet this cruel man , Did oftimes beatrice her with a cruel hand , As he did one day , with grief of heart , The youth with tears did take his mother's part . Cries he , Father , I'm afraid you will , With kicks and cuffs my tender mother kill , Hearing these words he then his son did beatrice , And that night turn'd him into the street , Saying , if thou com'st here any more , I'll break thy bones , he then lock'd the door , In the wide street this lad did lay all night , And in the morning came when it was light . But when this man look'd and saw his son , In a vast passion he to him did run , And with and axe knoc'd him on the crown , Which laid the youth along upon the ground . Being thus serv'd in tears he did lament , Then he god up and out of doors he went , Saying , if I should any longer stay , He in his wrath will take my life away . And prevent what dangers may ensue , Father and mother he bids both adieu ; And having knowledge of his father's trade , Went Cooper's mate to Turkey it is said . He lik'd the country so well we find The ship came back . and left the lad behind ; He plac'd himself with a native to dwell , Whose family lov'd him very well . Tho' young in years he was grown very tall , And of a comely countenance withal ; The native damsel did him much admire , And to enjoy him she had a vast desire His master kept him for his servant man , And in a short time , by death's destroying hand ; His master happened to trip away , Who being dead the young man boar the sway . His mistress lov'd him as she did her life And in a short time was made his lawful wife ; She was prodigious rich we understand , And she had many slaves at her command . Now I will leave him for a little while , With Providence on him and her to smile , And in the next part some enquiry make , What sort of life this cruel sire does take , Near Radcliff Cross he lived years this known And to his wife he was a cruel one ; And in process of time death did them part , And 'tis supposed this man broke her heart , And after her death he could not thrive at all , Day after day he down at heels did fallen , And by degrees this man was brought so low , For debt himself he was afraid to show , The bailiff waited for him day and night , He knowing of the same kept out of sighed , And to prevent his going into jail , In a merchantman he unto sea did sail . Thus he for debt was forc'd to fly from home , And on the raging seas where billows foam To their great grief , this man and twenty more , Were carried pris'ners to the Turkish shore It happened so , as we understand , They were made slaves unto his son's command ; Full half a year in slavery they had been . In all which time his son he had not seen , This cooper he was aged sixty two , Who was the oldest of the ship's crew ; Being stiff with age his task could not perform , By which he suffered many a heavy blow . The task master to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed ; Upon a time he lash'd him so one day , He could no longer stand , but down did lay , Being laid down the taskmaster did go , And gave the head master this to know ; Crying Sir , your slave he is and aged man , Will not perform his task do all that I can . He tells me plainly , that his work is done , When , hearing this , the head master his son , Went out among the slaves , where he found , His aged father lying on the ground . Not knowing him with great severity , He lash'd his father very grievously , Which made him cry , O , Sir , my flesh is very soar , Do hold thy hand , and strike me no more The task is hard your servant puts on me , What can I do that I am most free , To suffer this I'm not able to live , Kill me outright and I will you forgive Hearing these words his son did him view , And said tell me what countryman are you ? His answer was I came from Old England , I am a cooper , Sir , from fair London . My name is Robert Stark , 'tis known right well I was a man in great repute did dwell , But as it prov'd fortune frowned on me , Now 'tis my lot your suffering slave to be . Have you no family , he replied no ; I buried a wife seven years ago , And I had a son a hopeful child was he , Three years before her death he went from me . I have not herd from him now all the while , I cruel was both to my wife and child , And I do really think now from my heart , 'Tis now for my cruelty , I thus do smart , Now hearing this , his son with grief was fill'd , And tears like water that was finely still'd , Ran down his cheeks amain tear after tear , To think that he had lash'd his father dear . Then he aside this taskmaster did call , And said , do not abuse this man at all , He is my father , but don't let him know , I am his son . Then home he did go And to his closet he in private went , And there with bitter cries did soar lament , At length by chance his wife did him hear , Who said what makes you so grieve my dear . His answer was to grieve great cause I have , For my own father is become my slave ; Not knowing him I lash'd him o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the curse of God should light on me But what I did it was innocently . O , wife what shall I do ? my heart does bleed , Do let my father come to me with speed , They sent for him and when he came there , They of his tender flesh did take great care , His bleeding wounds were anointed with oil , And the poor man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice linen , fine and soft , And other costly things to him were brought , And in these garments when he was array'd , To them with tears lift up his eyes and said . Lord what am I more than another slave , That I such favour of my master have , Blessed be his name that my friend does stand , To pity me thus in a foreign land . Hearing these words his son could not refrain ; His tears from falling down , and wept amain , He said , the man , who thus has for you done , Behold , he is your dear and only son . I'm grieved to think that I proved so severe ; To lay my hands upon my father dear , But God will pardon me , because I did not know that thou my father was . Hearing these words like one struck in amaze , He with a blush then on his son did gaze , Saying , are you my son ? ---- alas ! alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My son , my son , I'm glad thy face to see , But what astonishment is here for me , That I , who beatrice my child quite out of door , Should thus be forc'd his favour to implore , Father , the Lord did these things foresee , That you should come your child's slave to be , And God was pleas'd these things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud mortals too . The Lord has plac'd us here to live and reign , To be thy friends to ease thee of thy pain , I'll succour thee till death , and for thy sake , I of my native slaves great care will take . He cherish'd him oftimes , but on a day , His wife was pleas'd then these words to say , Husband , because he was cruel unto you , I ne'er shall love your father , that is true I do not care that he should here remain , From whence he came let him return again , And unto him we will some riches give , Enough to cherish him while he does live . For quietness sake he made this reply , But turn'd him round and wept most bitterly , To think that he must from his father part Grief like a spear stuck him unto the heart . Then in short time his father left the shore , And in a merchantman ship he did come o'er , Again to England , and did bring to town As much in riches as five thousand pounds . He ow'd a hundred pounds , which he paid , When being out of debt , these words he said , First my dear God , I give thanks to thee , Next for my child , my prayers shall be , For had it been another , I deserv'd , In slavery till death , I must have serv'd , And ne'er had met one in that distant place , Thus to commiserate my wretched case . Now to conclude young men let these lines , Be well engrav'd in your hearts and minds That is to serve the Lord and shun the devil . And like this young man still do good for evil . Printed and sold by J. Pitts , NO . 14 , Great St. Andrew-street , seven Dials . Price One Penny 