The BRIDE's BURIAL . And Excellent Old-Ballad , --- Tune of 'The Lady's Fallen . COME mourn , come mourn with me , You Loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeping woe , Whom gripping grief does thrall , Like to the drooping Vine . Cut by the Gardner's Knife ; Even so my Heart with sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet Life , By death that griefly Ghost , My turtle Dove is slave , And I am left , unhappy Man ! To spend my Days in vain , Her beauty , late so bright , Like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the Summer's Snow , By force of Phoebus's shine . Her fair & colour'd Cheeks , Now pale & won her Eyes , Which late did shine like Crystal Stars , Alas ! their Light it die , Her pretty lily hands , With Finger's long & small , In colour like the earthly Clay ; Yea , cold & stiff withal . When as the morning star , Her golden Gates had spread , And the bright glittering Sun arose , Forth from fair Thetis' bed , Then did my lover 'wake , Most like a Lily Flower , And as the lovelly Queen of MAY , So shone she in her Bower . Attir'd was she then , Like Flora in her pride ; As fair as any of Diana's Nymphs , So look'd my lovely Bride . And as fair Helener's face , Gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my Dear exceed in sighed , All Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the knot , Of holy Wedlock's band , Like Alabaster join'd to Jet , So stood we hand in hand , When lo ! chilling cold , Struck every Vital part , And gripping grief , like pangs of death , Seiz'd on my true Love's heart . Down in a swoon She fell , As cold as any Stone ; Like Venus' picture lacking Life , So was my Love brought home , At length the Rosey Read , Throughout her comely Face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds . Are cover'd for a space . When with a grievous groan , And Voice both horse & dry , Farewell said she , my loving friend , For I this Day must Die , The messenger of God , With golden trump , I see , With many other Angels more , Who found & call for me . Instead of music sweet , Go toll my Passing-Bell , And with sweet Flowers strew my Grave : Which in my Chamber smell , Strip off my bright array , My cork Shoes from my Feet ; And gentle Mother be so kind , To bring my winding-sheet . My Wedding dinner dress , Bestow upon the Poor , And on the hungry , needy , maim'd , Which beggeth at the door , Instead of virgins young , My Bridemaids for to be , Go cause some curious carpenter , To make a Chust for me . My bride laces of silk , Bestow'd on maidens meek , May fitly serve when I am dead , To tie my Hands & Feet , And thou my lover true , My husband & my Friend , Let me entreat you here to stay , Until my Life does end . Now leave to talk of love , And humble on your knee , Direct your Prayers unto God , But moan no more for me , In love , as we have liv'd , In love too let us par And as a token of my Love , I do kiss thee with my heart . Oh! staunch those briny tears Your weeping is in vain , I am not lost , for we in Heaven , One day shall meet again , With that shu turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , And as a Lamb departed life , While friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous groan , As tho' his heart was burst in twain , And thus he made his moan , Oh dismal & unhappy Day ! A Day of grief & care , Which hath bereft the Sun so high , Whose beams refresh the Air . Now woe unto the World , And all that therein dwell , Oh! that I were with thee in Heaven , For now I live in hell , And now this lover lives , A discontent'd Life ; Whose Bride was brought unto the grave A Maiden & a Wife . A Garland fresh & fair , Of lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , And on her Coffin laid , Six Maidens all in white , Did bear her to the ground ; The Bells' did Ring in solom sort , And made a doleful found . In Earth they laid her then , For hungry worms a prey , So shall the fairest face alive , At length be brought to Clay . D. Wrighton , Printer , No. 36 . Snow-Hill , Birmingham The BRIDE's BURIAL . And Excellent Old-Ballad , --- Tune of 'The Lady's Fallen . COME mourn , come mourn with me , You Loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeping woe , Whom gripping grief does thrall , Like to the drooping Vine . Cut by the Gardner's Knife ; Even so my Heart with sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet Life , By death that griefly Ghost , My turtle Dove is slave , And I am left , unhappy Man ! To spend my Days in vain , Her beauty , late so bright , Like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the Summer's Snow , By force of Phoebus's shine . Her fair & colour'd Cheeks , Now pale & won her Eyes , Which late did shine like Crystal Stars , Alas ! their Light it die , Her pretty lily hands , With Finger's long & small , In colour like the earthly Clay ; Yea , cold & stiff withal . When as the morning star , Her golden Gates had spread , And the bright glittering Sun arose , Forth from fair Thetis' bed , Then did my lover 'wake , Most like a Lily Flower , And as the lovelly Queen of MAY , So shone she in her Bower . Attir'd was she then , Like Flora in her pride ; As fair as any of Diana's Nymphs , So look'd my lovely Bride . And as fair Helener's face , Gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my Dear exceed in sighed , All Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the knot , Of holy Wedlock's band , Like Alabaster join'd to Jet , So stood we hand in hand , When lo ! chilling cold , Struck every Vital part , And gripping grief , like pangs of death , Seiz'd on my true Love's heart . Down in a swoon She fell , As cold as any Stone ; Like Venus' picture lacking Life , So was my Love brought home , At length the Rosey Read , Throughout her comely Face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds . Are cover'd for a space . When with a grievous groan , And Voice both horse & dry , Farewell said she , my loving friend , For I this Day must Die , The messenger of God , With golden trump , I see , With many other Angels more , Who found & call for me . Instead of music sweet , Go toll my Passing-Bell , And with sweet Flowers strew my Grave : Which in my Chamber smell , Strip off my bright array , My cork Shoes from my Feet ; And gentle Mother be so kind , To bring my winding-sheet . My Wedding dinner dress , Bestow upon the Poor , And on the hungry , needy , maim'd , Which beggeth at the door , Instead of virgins young , My Bridemaids for to be , Go cause some curious carpenter , To make a Chust for me . My bride laces of silk , Bestow'd on maidens meek , May fitly serve when I am dead , To tie my Hands & Feet , And thou my lover true , My husband & my Friend , Let me entreat you here to stay , Until my Life does end . Now leave to talk of love , And humble on your knee , Direct your Prayers unto God , But moan no more for me , In love , as we have liv'd , In love too let us par And as a token of my Love , I do kiss thee with my heart . Oh! staunch those briny tears Your weeping is in vain , I am not lost , for we in Heaven , One day shall meet again , With that shu turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , And as a Lamb departed life , While friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous groan , As tho' his heart was burst in twain , And thus he made his moan , Oh dismal & unhappy Day ! A Day of grief & care , Which hath bereft the Sun so high , Whose beams refresh the Air . Now woe unto the World , And all that therein dwell , Oh! that I were with thee in Heaven , For now I live in hell , And now this lover lives , A discontent'd Life ; Whose Bride was brought unto the grave A Maiden & a Wife . A Garland fresh & fair , Of lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , And on her Coffin laid , Six Maidens all in white , Did bear her to the ground ; The Bells' did Ring in solom sort , And made a doleful found . In Earth they laid her then , For hungry worms a prey , So shall the fairest face alive , At length be brought to Clay . D. Wrighton , Printer , No. 36 . Snow-Hill , Birmingham 