TO THE DUKE ON HIS RETURN . Written by NAT . LEE . COME then at last , while anxious Nations weep , Three Kingdoms stak't ! too precious for the deep . Too precious sure , for when the Trump of fame Did with a direful found your Wrack proclaim , Your danger and your doubtful safety shown , It dampt the Genius , and it Shook the Throne . Your Helm may now the Sea-born Goddess take , And soft Favonius safe your passage make . Strong , and auspicious , be the Stars that reign , The day you launch , and Nereus sweep the Main . Neptune aloft , scowr all the Storms before , And following Tritons , wind you to the Shore ; While on the Beach , like Billows of the Land , In bending Crowds the Loyal English stand : Come then , though late , your right receive at last ; Which Heaven preserv'd , in spite of Fortune's blast , Accept those hearts , that Offer on the Strand ; The better half of this divided Land. Venting their honest Souls in tears of Joy , They rave , and beg you wou'd their lives employ , Shouting your sacred name , they drive the air , And fill your Canvas Wings with gales of prayer . Come then I hear three Nations shout again , And , next our Charles , in every bosom reign ; Heaven's darling Charge , the care of regal stars , Pledge of our Peace , and Triumph of our Wars . Heav'n Heav'n eccho's Come , but come not Sir alone , Bring the bright pregnant Blessing of the Throne . And if in Poets charms be force or skill , We charge you , Oh you Waves , and Winds be still , Soft as a sailing Goddess bring her home , With the expected Prince that loads her Womb , Joy of this Age and Heir of that to come . Next her the Virgin Princess shines from far , Aurora that , and this the Morning Star . Hail then , all hail , They land in Charle's Arms , While his large Breast , the Nation's Angel warms . Tears from his Cheeks with manly mildness roll , Then dearly grasps the treasure of his Soul : Hangs on his Neck , and feeds upon his from , Calls him his Calm , after a tedious Storm . O Brother ! He cou'd say no more , and then , With heaving Passion clasp'd him close again . How oft he cry'd have I thy absence mourn'd , But 'tis enough Thou art at last return'd : Said I return'd ! O never more to part , Nor draw the vital warmth from Charles his heart . Once more , Oh Heav'n , I shall his Virtue prove , His Council , Conduct , and unshaken Love . My People too at last their Error see , And make their Sovereign blessed in loving Thee . Not but there is a stiff-neck'd-harden'd Crew That give not Caesar , no nor God his endue . Reprobate Traitors , Tyrants of their Own , Yet Grudge to see their Monarch in his Throne . Their stubborn Souls with brass Rebellion barr'd , Desert the Laws , and Crimes with Treason guard . Whom I --- but there he stop'd , and cry'd 'tis past , Pity's no more , this warning be their last ; Then sighing said , my Soul's dear purchas'd rest , Welcome , O welcome , to my longing Bres Why should I waste a tear while thou art by , To all extremes of Friendship let us fly , Disdain the factious Crowd that wou'd rebel And mourn the Men that durst in death-excell , Their Fates were Glorious since for thee they fell . And as a Prince has right his Arms to weil'd , When stubborn Rebels force him to the Field ; So for the Loyal , who their Lives lay down , He dares to Hazard both his Life and Crown . FINIS . Printed for J. Tonson , at the Judge's Head in Chancery-lane , 1682. TO THE DUKE ON HIS RETURN . Written by NAT . LEE . COME then at last , while anxious Nations weep , Three Kingdoms stak't ! too precious for the deep . Too precious sure , for when the Trump of fame Did with a direful found your Wrack proclaim , Your danger and your doubtful safety shown , It dampt the Genius , and it Shook the Throne . Your Helm may now the Sea-born Goddess take , And soft Favonius safe your passage make . Strong , and auspicious , be the Stars that reign , The day you launch , and Nereus sweep the Main . Neptune aloft , scowr all the Storms before , And following Tritons , wind you to the Shore ; While on the Beach , like Billows of the Land , In bending Crowds the Loyal English stand : Come then , though late , your right receive at last ; Which Heaven preserv'd , in spite of Fortune's blast , Accept those hearts , that Offer on the Strand ; The better half of this divided Land. Venting their honest Souls in tears of Joy , They rave , and beg you wou'd their lives employ , Shouting your sacred name , they drive the air , And fill your Canvas Wings with gales of prayer . Come then I hear three Nations shout again , And , next our Charles , in every bosom reign ; Heaven's darling Charge , the care of regal stars , Pledge of our Peace , and Triumph of our Wars . Heav'n Heav'n eccho's Come , but come not Sir alone , Bring the bright pregnant Blessing of the Throne . And if in Poets charms be force or skill , We charge you , Oh you Waves , and Winds be still , Soft as a sailing Goddess bring her home , With the expected Prince that loads her Womb , Joy of this Age and Heir of that to come . Next her the Virgin Princess shines from far , Aurora that , and this the Morning Star . Hail then , all hail , They land in Charle's Arms , While his large Breast , the Nation's Angel warms . Tears from his Cheeks with manly mildness roll , Then dearly grasps the treasure of his Soul : Hangs on his Neck , and feeds upon his from , Calls him his Calm , after a tedious Storm . O Brother ! He cou'd say no more , and then , With heaving Passion clasp'd him close again . How oft he cry'd have I thy absence mourn'd , But 'tis enough Thou art at last return'd : Said I return'd ! O never more to part , Nor draw the vital warmth from Charles his heart . Once more , Oh Heav'n , I shall his Virtue prove , His Council , Conduct , and unshaken Love . My People too at last their Error see , And make their Sovereign blessed in loving Thee . Not but there is a stiff-neck'd-harden'd Crew That give not Caesar , no nor God his endue . Reprobate Traitors , Tyrants of their Own , Yet Grudge to see their Monarch in his Throne . Their stubborn Souls with brass Rebellion barr'd , Desert the Laws , and Crimes with Treason guard . Whom I --- but there he stop'd , and cry'd 'tis past , Pity's no more , this warning be their last ; Then sighing said , my Soul's dear purchas'd rest , Welcome , O welcome , to my longing Bres Why should I waste a tear while thou art by , To all extremes of Friendship let us fly , Disdain the factious Crowd that wou'd rebel And mourn the Men that durst in death-excell , Their Fates were Glorious since for thee they fell . And as a Prince has right his Arms to weil'd , When stubborn Rebels force him to the Field ; So for the Loyal , who their Lives lay down , He dares to Hazard both his Life and Crown . FINIS . Printed for J. Tonson , at the Judge's Head in Chancery-lane , 1682. 