The Blind eats many a Fly : OR , The Broken Damsel made Whole . The Tune of , My Father gave me a House and Land. OF late there was a Damsel mild , as I have herd for certain , To London went being with Child , and there to try her fortune : Where soon she had a Master god , with whom she was well pleased ; A Widower old and rich , God wot , whereby her Joys increased : For I have herd it spoken plain , if that a Girl be undone , She quickly is made whole again if she goes up to London . This Girl went with the Carrier up , that in the Country lived , And for to leave this pretty Duck , I think no jot he grieved : For he his payment had indeed , although the Girl was weary , And she a Master god with speed , which made her blithe and merry ; Whereby it now appears plain , if that a Girl be undone She is quickly made whole again if she goes up to London . This Girl but a small time had been with this Man on a trial , But her to woo he did begin , and would have no denial ; But she having a nimble Wit , unto him thus replied , And said , the Match it was not fit , his Suit must be denied ; And thus then by her flattering Speech , knowing that she was undone , By this Man was made whole again , when she came up to London . ( Quoth she ) I have in the Country great store of wealth and riches , And many for to wed with me , indeed their Fingers itches , Both Gentlemen and Tradesmen brave to me did sue for favour , And many a Youth my love did crave , but all have lost their labour : among these Gallants good and bad , the best I might have chosen ; For I great store of Suitors had , full thirteen to the dozen . A Goldsmith and a Mercer brave , a Silkman and a Draper , Three wealthy Heirs , young Gentlemen , the which could rant and vapor ; A Feltmaker and a Shoemaker , a Glover , Weaver , and Taylor , A Tanner and a Currier , and a bold-hearted Sailor : But yet I loved the Sailor best , but for my Friend's displeasure , I had followed him from East to West , and served him at his pleasure . Yet still he followed on his Suit , and woo'd this Girl most stoutly , And she like to a Virgin mute , did stand it out devoutly . At last upon Conditions he the Fort from her obtain'd , And she surrendered quietly , whereby he profit gain'd : On these conditions both agreed , which you shall hear hereafter , When you the Articles do read , it then will cause some laughter . The Articles agreed upon , are these : Woman , You shall not go to law with my Father for my Portion . Man , I will not . Wom. You shall not call my Children Bastards to prove yourself a Cuckold . Man , Not I upon my honesty . Wom. You shall not be jealous if I go with another Man to drink a Cup of Sack . Man , Indeed Sweetheart I hate such Thoughts . Wom. On this Condition , Hand and Heart I give to thee till Death us part . Man , And I will prove as true to thee , Come let us kiss and married be . The Articles being sealed indeed , the matter was so carried , A Priest they sent for with all speed , and so they both were married . But mark what after did betide , which caused the Man to wonder , At three days end his lusty Bride was strangely fallen asunder ; She had one Boy and eke a Girl which the Midwife brought unto him , Which made him scratch where it did not itch , and said it would undo him . The Midwife prayed him be content , his Bride was young and fair , You have no cause for to repent , you have a lusty Heir : There's some would give a thousand pound for such a Boy I tell you , But such fruits are not in some found for want of a great Belly : Then pray come and love your Wife , and so be reconciled , You are not the first , upon my life , the which hath been beguiled . So straight he went into the Hall , and did salute each neighbour , And kindly drank unto them all , and thank'd them for their labour . In merriment he there did say , if all be Gold does glister , My Wife has Land for her brave Boy , and Money for his Sister : For surely I must love her dear , she is both young and fair , And by her it does appear , a very rich Man's Heir , To go into the Country both his Wife he oft entreated , At last she yields , but very loath , knowing that him she had cheated : But when that they came to her Dad , this jest is worth the telling , His House and Goods and all he had was scarce worth forty shilling ; Her Friends on which she did so boast , good folks by Alms do cherish , And their poor House built at the cost and charges of the Parish . Said he , Are these your Friends indeed , where's your great Wealth and Treasure , I married you in haste and speed , but may repent at leisure . The Blind ( I see ) catch many a Fly , and I must be contented ; For Marriage goes by Destiny : I can no way prevent it . And so to London back they go , having receiv'd no profit ; The Articles do bind him so , he dares say nothing of it . You Shopkeepers and Tradesmen light , that live in London City , I do you all with Love invite to read this pleasant Ditty : Some Tradesmen to the Country sends bad Wares and broken Glasses , And Country Lads , to make amends , send them up broken Lasses : If a Country Girl do chance to dance , and by that Jig be undone , She quickly is made whole again by some Tradesmen in London . So to conclude my merry Jest , the which is worth the reading , My love to you it is expressed ; I wish you good proceeding Young Men and Maids of each degree , Widowers and Widows lusty , In perfect love , without flattery , be constant , true and trusty : So need you not for to complain like to some girls being undone , Nor seek to be made whole again by going up to London . Printed for P . Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . The Blind eats many a Fly : OR , The Broken Damsel made Whole . The Tune of , My Father gave me a House and Land. OF late there was a Damsel mild , as I have herd for certain , To London went being with Child , and there to try her fortune : Where soon she had a Master god , with whom she was well pleased ; A Widower old and rich , God wot , whereby her Joys increased : For I have herd it spoken plain , if that a Girl be undone , She quickly is made whole again if she goes up to London . This Girl went with the Carrier up , that in the Country lived , And for to leave this pretty Duck , I think no jot he grieved : For he his payment had indeed , although the Girl was weary , And she a Master god with speed , which made her blithe and merry ; Whereby it now appears plain , if that a Girl be undone She is quickly made whole again if she goes up to London . This Girl but a small time had been with this Man on a trial , But her to woo he did begin , and would have no denial ; But she having a nimble Wit , unto him thus replied , And said , the Match it was not fit , his Suit must be denied ; And thus then by her flattering Speech , knowing that she was undone , By this Man was made whole again , when she came up to London . ( Quoth she ) I have in the Country great store of wealth and riches , And many for to wed with me , indeed their Fingers itches , Both Gentlemen and Tradesmen brave to me did sue for favour , And many a Youth my love did crave , but all have lost their labour : among these Gallants good and bad , the best I might have chosen ; For I great store of Suitors had , full thirteen to the dozen . A Goldsmith and a Mercer brave , a Silkman and a Draper , Three wealthy Heirs , young Gentlemen , the which could rant and vapor ; A Feltmaker and a Shoemaker , a Glover , Weaver , and Taylor , A Tanner and a Currier , and a bold-hearted Sailor : But yet I loved the Sailor best , but for my Friend's displeasure , I had followed him from East to West , and served him at his pleasure . Yet still he followed on his Suit , and woo'd this Girl most stoutly , And she like to a Virgin mute , did stand it out devoutly . At last upon Conditions he the Fort from her obtain'd , And she surrendered quietly , whereby he profit gain'd : On these conditions both agreed , which you shall hear hereafter , When you the Articles do read , it then will cause some laughter . The Articles agreed upon , are these : Woman , You shall not go to law with my Father for my Portion . Man , I will not . Wom. You shall not call my Children Bastards to prove yourself a Cuckold . Man , Not I upon my honesty . Wom. You shall not be jealous if I go with another Man to drink a Cup of Sack . Man , Indeed Sweetheart I hate such Thoughts . Wom. On this Condition , Hand and Heart I give to thee till Death us part . Man , And I will prove as true to thee , Come let us kiss and married be . The Articles being sealed indeed , the matter was so carried , A Priest they sent for with all speed , and so they both were married . But mark what after did betide , which caused the Man to wonder , At three days end his lusty Bride was strangely fallen asunder ; She had one Boy and eke a Girl which the Midwife brought unto him , Which made him scratch where it did not itch , and said it would undo him . The Midwife prayed him be content , his Bride was young and fair , You have no cause for to repent , you have a lusty Heir : There's some would give a thousand pound for such a Boy I tell you , But such fruits are not in some found for want of a great Belly : Then pray come and love your Wife , and so be reconciled , You are not the first , upon my life , the which hath been beguiled . So straight he went into the Hall , and did salute each neighbour , And kindly drank unto them all , and thank'd them for their labour . In merriment he there did say , if all be Gold does glister , My Wife has Land for her brave Boy , and Money for his Sister : For surely I must love her dear , she is both young and fair , And by her it does appear , a very rich Man's Heir , To go into the Country both his Wife he oft entreated , At last she yields , but very loath , knowing that him she had cheated : But when that they came to her Dad , this jest is worth the telling , His House and Goods and all he had was scarce worth forty shilling ; Her Friends on which she did so boast , good folks by Alms do cherish , And their poor House built at the cost and charges of the Parish . Said he , Are these your Friends indeed , where's your great Wealth and Treasure , I married you in haste and speed , but may repent at leisure . The Blind ( I see ) catch many a Fly , and I must be contented ; For Marriage goes by Destiny : I can no way prevent it . And so to London back they go , having receiv'd no profit ; The Articles do bind him so , he dares say nothing of it . You Shopkeepers and Tradesmen light , that live in London City , I do you all with Love invite to read this pleasant Ditty : Some Tradesmen to the Country sends bad Wares and broken Glasses , And Country Lads , to make amends , send them up broken Lasses : If a Country Girl do chance to dance , and by that Jig be undone , She quickly is made whole again by some Tradesmen in London . So to conclude my merry Jest , the which is worth the reading , My love to you it is expressed ; I wish you good proceeding Young Men and Maids of each degree , Widowers and Widows lusty , In perfect love , without flattery , be constant , true and trusty : So need you not for to complain like to some girls being undone , Nor seek to be made whole again by going up to London . Printed for P . Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . 