A pleasant new Ballad of two Lovers . To a pleasant new Tune . Complain my Lute complain on him that stays so long away , He promis'd to be here ere this , but still unkind does stay . But now the Proverb true I find , once out of sighed , then out of mind : Heigh hoe my heart is full of woe . Peace liar peace , it is not so , he will by and by be here : But every one that is in Love , thinks every hour a year . Hark , hark , me thinks I hear one knock run quickly then and turn the lock , Then farrwell all my care and woe . Come gallant now , come loiterer , for I must chide with thee : But yet I will forgive thee once , come fit thee down by me , Fair Lady rest your self content , I will endure your punishment , And then we shall be friends again . For every' hour that I have stayed , so long from thee away , A thousand kisses will I give , receive them ready pay , And if we chance to count amiss again wee'le reckon them every kiss , For he is blessed that's punished so . And if those those thousand kisses then , we chance to count aright We shall not need to count again till we in bed do ligh And then be sure that thou shalt have , thy reckoning just as thou shalt crave . So shall we still agree as one . And thus they spent the silent night , in sweet delightful sport , Till Phoebus with his beams so bright , from out the fiery port Did blush to see the sweet content , in sable night so vainly spent , Betwixt these Lovers two . And then this Gallant did persuade , that he might now be gone : Sweetheart , quoth he , I am afraid , that I have stayed too long . And wilt thou then be gone , quoth she , and will no longer stay with me : Then welcome all my care and woe . And then she took her lute in hand , and thus began to play , Her heart was faint she could not stand , but on her bed she lay , And art thou gone my love , quoth she , complain my Lute , complain with me Until that he does come again . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . A pleasant new Ballad of two Lovers . To a pleasant new Tune . Complain my Lute complain on him that stays so long away , He promis'd to be here ere this , but still unkind does stay . But now the Proverb true I find , once out of sighed , then out of mind : Heigh hoe my heart is full of woe . Peace liar peace , it is not so , he will by and by be here : But every one that is in Love , thinks every hour a year . Hark , hark , me thinks I hear one knock run quickly then and turn the lock , Then farrwell all my care and woe . Come gallant now , come loiterer , for I must chide with thee : But yet I will forgive thee once , come fit thee down by me , Fair Lady rest your self content , I will endure your punishment , And then we shall be friends again . For every' hour that I have stayed , so long from thee away , A thousand kisses will I give , receive them ready pay , And if we chance to count amiss again wee'le reckon them every kiss , For he is blessed that's punished so . And if those those thousand kisses then , we chance to count aright We shall not need to count again till we in bed do ligh And then be sure that thou shalt have , thy reckoning just as thou shalt crave . So shall we still agree as one . And thus they spent the silent night , in sweet delightful sport , Till Phoebus with his beams so bright , from out the fiery port Did blush to see the sweet content , in sable night so vainly spent , Betwixt these Lovers two . And then this Gallant did persuade , that he might now be gone : Sweetheart , quoth he , I am afraid , that I have stayed too long . And wilt thou then be gone , quoth she , and will no longer stay with me : Then welcome all my care and woe . And then she took her lute in hand , and thus began to play , Her heart was faint she could not stand , but on her bed she lay , And art thou gone my love , quoth she , complain my Lute , complain with me Until that he does come again . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . 