The Courageous Cookmaid . OR , Heigh for the North Country . Being a Leicestershire frolic performed by and Esquires Cook-Maid , who ( being disguised in men apparel ) robbed five Tailors upon the Highway of five pounds , which they had newly receive - ed of her Master , for work which they had done , she having no Weapons about her but a large Black-Pudding , which they supposed in the Night to be a Pistol , they very quietly delivered their Money , which she carrying home , caused much mirth and [ l ] aughter throughout the whole Family . Likewise how she Conjured for the money when they came to her after , to set forth Hue and Cry after the Padder , etc Tune of , The City Caper , Or : Digby , etc Ah Lord ! Now we are all undone . OF late in the North a fine frolic did pass , five Tailors was rob [ e ] worser by a jovial young lass The jest it is true , and will m [ a ] ke you to smile , If you will have patience to listen awhile ; No weapons of Death had this Amazon stout , But with a Black-pudding she put them to th' rout , Then finikin Tailors who follow the trade , Remember the Pudding , and Doll the Cookmaid . These Tailors did usually work by the day , For four pence and Porridge the story does say , But now at a Squires house they were imploy'd , For which their good fortune they were overjoy [ ' ] worser : A long time they did stitch till their wages did come , To twenty good crowns , which they thought a round sum , then finikin , etc Their work being done , they their money receive , And now their good master their minded to leave , A cup of the best at their parting they take , And then by consent , their way homeward they make , Meantime the Cookmaid to her master she hies , And told how their money she would make a prize , then nitty breecht , etc Quoth she , Sir I'll venture some pastime to make , I'll make these five Tailors most sadly to quake , In haste she disguis'd herself in men attire , And mounted a horse , like a trusty young Squire , With weapons of war , she herself would not load , But with a Black-pudding she trooped on the Road , then finikin Tailors that live by the trade , remember the Pudding , and Doll the Cookmaid . SHe soon overtook them , and passed them did ride , And then turn'd upon them with fury that tide , You Dogs you deliver your money with speed , Or by this same weapon I'll make you all bleed , Then out her Black Pudding she instantly drew , Which like a good Pistol appeared to their view . then finikin Tailors that live by the trade , remember the Pudding , and Doll the Cookmaid . The Tailors perceiving that death was so near , Fell down on their knees in a pi [ tO ] eous fear , Quoth they , we're poor Tailors your Worship may know , And all do want money to pay where we owe You Rascals , quoth she , how such lies dare you tell , For you have five pounds which I know off full well . then finikin , etc The Tailors supposing they should be all slave Did beg for their lives in a piteous strain , Quoth one of the wisest , Oh spare us dear brother , Because it's but seldom one thief robs another , We are near of kin as the Nephew and Niece , You live by thee the pad , and we live by the piece . then f [ i ] nikin , etc Quoth she , are you willing your blood should be spilled Which made them immediately pull out their guilt ; Here's all quoth the Tailors as we hope to live We hope a good part of [ it ] back you will give , You slaves do you think I will part from my money , When once I have god it . O no not a penny , then nitty breecht , etc The poor Taylor making his complaint to the Esquire . She left them bewailing , and home she did ride , And told the adventure what e're did betide , Which made them all laugh till their sides they were soar They vow'd such a frolic was ne'r done before , Her courage her master did highly applaud , And laughed at the jest how the Tailors were claw'd . then finikin , etc The silly poor Tailors their money being lost , Came back to the Gentleman puffing in haste , To send out a Hue and Cry after the thief , Which made him to smile to himself , but in brief The cookmaid was call'd and they promised her part , If she could the money find out by her art , then finikin , etc Then Doll fell to conjuring without delay , And brought the same money was taken away , Quoth she , there's your Coal you impertinent knaves 'Twas I took it from you you pitiful slaves , With this same Black-pudding , and no other tools , I made you to stink , like five cowardly fools , then finikin , etc And now let the Tailors deny it if they can , That [ f ] i [ v ] e of them goes for to make up a man , This jest will be laughed at while we are alive , How Doll with the Tailors so bravely did thrive : Throughout Leicestershire her fame it does ring , And in all parts of England the same we will sing . Then finikin Tailors that live by the trade , Remember the Pudding and Doll the Cookmaid . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and I . Clarke . The Courageous Cookmaid . OR , Heigh for the North Country . Being a Leicestershire frolic performed by and Esquires Cook-Maid , who ( being disguised in men apparel ) robbed five Tailors upon the Highway of five pounds , which they had newly receive - ed of her Master , for work which they had done , she having no Weapons about her but a large Black-Pudding , which they supposed in the Night to be a Pistol , they very quietly delivered their Money , which she carrying home , caused much mirth and [ l ] aughter throughout the whole Family . Likewise how she Conjured for the money when they came to her after , to set forth Hue and Cry after the Padder , etc Tune of , The City Caper , Or : Digby , etc Ah Lord ! Now we are all undone . OF late in the North a fine frolic did pass , five Tailors was rob [ e ] worser by a jovial young lass The jest it is true , and will m [ a ] ke you to smile , If you will have patience to listen awhile ; No weapons of Death had this Amazon stout , But with a Black-pudding she put them to th' rout , Then finikin Tailors who follow the trade , Remember the Pudding , and Doll the Cookmaid . These Tailors did usually work by the day , For four pence and Porridge the story does say , But now at a Squires house they were imploy'd , For which their good fortune they were overjoy [ ' ] worser : A long time they did stitch till their wages did come , To twenty good crowns , which they thought a round sum , then finikin , etc Their work being done , they their money receive , And now their good master their minded to leave , A cup of the best at their parting they take , And then by consent , their way homeward they make , Meantime the Cookmaid to her master she hies , And told how their money she would make a prize , then nitty breecht , etc Quoth she , Sir I'll venture some pastime to make , I'll make these five Tailors most sadly to quake , In haste she disguis'd herself in men attire , And mounted a horse , like a trusty young Squire , With weapons of war , she herself would not load , But with a Black-pudding she trooped on the Road , then finikin Tailors that live by the trade , remember the Pudding , and Doll the Cookmaid . SHe soon overtook them , and passed them did ride , And then turn'd upon them with fury that tide , You Dogs you deliver your money with speed , Or by this same weapon I'll make you all bleed , Then out her Black Pudding she instantly drew , Which like a good Pistol appeared to their view . then finikin Tailors that live by the trade , remember the Pudding , and Doll the Cookmaid . The Tailors perceiving that death was so near , Fell down on their knees in a pi [ tO ] eous fear , Quoth they , we're poor Tailors your Worship may know , And all do want money to pay where we owe You Rascals , quoth she , how such lies dare you tell , For you have five pounds which I know off full well . then finikin , etc The Tailors supposing they should be all slave Did beg for their lives in a piteous strain , Quoth one of the wisest , Oh spare us dear brother , Because it's but seldom one thief robs another , We are near of kin as the Nephew and Niece , You live by thee the pad , and we live by the piece . then f [ i ] nikin , etc Quoth she , are you willing your blood should be spilled Which made them immediately pull out their guilt ; Here's all quoth the Tailors as we hope to live We hope a good part of [ it ] back you will give , You slaves do you think I will part from my money , When once I have god it . O no not a penny , then nitty breecht , etc The poor Taylor making his complaint to the Esquire . She left them bewailing , and home she did ride , And told the adventure what e're did betide , Which made them all laugh till their sides they were soar They vow'd such a frolic was ne'r done before , Her courage her master did highly applaud , And laughed at the jest how the Tailors were claw'd . then finikin , etc The silly poor Tailors their money being lost , Came back to the Gentleman puffing in haste , To send out a Hue and Cry after the thief , Which made him to smile to himself , but in brief The cookmaid was call'd and they promised her part , If she could the money find out by her art , then finikin , etc Then Doll fell to conjuring without delay , And brought the same money was taken away , Quoth she , there's your Coal you impertinent knaves 'Twas I took it from you you pitiful slaves , With this same Black-pudding , and no other tools , I made you to stink , like five cowardly fools , then finikin , etc And now let the Tailors deny it if they can , That [ f ] i [ v ] e of them goes for to make up a man , This jest will be laughed at while we are alive , How Doll with the Tailors so bravely did thrive : Throughout Leicestershire her fame it does ring , And in all parts of England the same we will sing . Then finikin Tailors that live by the trade , Remember the Pudding and Doll the Cookmaid . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and I . Clarke . 