Kind WILLIAM , Or , Constant BETTY . Let Maids beware , and shun the snare , I say berul'd by me ; Though you embrace , be perfect Chaste , from stains of Infamy . To the Tune of The Doubting Virgin . COnstant Betty that sweet Creature , she was William's hearts delight ; In the Shades he chanc'd to meet her , when Fair Phoebus shined brigh In conclusion his delusion was to bring her to his Bow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answer'd , no , no , no . Then his Betty he Embraced , hoping for to win the Field , She with modesty was graced , and resolved not to yield : She denied , he replied , do not seek my Overthrow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answer'd no , no , no . Thou hast set mine heart on fire , sweetest Creature be not coy , Grant me what I do desire , thou shalt be my only joy : Thus he Woo'd her to delude her , and to bring her to his Bow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answer'd no , no , no . Love thou art my only treasure , then he took her by the hand , Let me now enjoy the pleasure , I will be at thy command : Don't abuse me , nor refuse me , lest it proves my overthrow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Now admit me , my sweet Betty , to salute and lay thee down , None alive I think more pretty , I will thee with pleasure Crown : Don't deny me , do but try me , from those charms such pleasures flow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Thy obliging Eye hath wone me , dearest I am not in jest , Why should'st thou be coy and shun me , I am certainly possessed With thy Beauty for my duty is to bring thee to my Bow. Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Dearest Betty fit down by me , let us lovingly agree , Sweetest Creature don't deny me , Cupid's Dart hath wounded me : Then come near me , Love and cheer me for my heart is sinking low , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Betty's Answer to William's Request . William you are much mistaken , you shall never me ensnare , In your Net I'll not be taken , therefore now your Suit forbear : I'll deny it , and defy it , for I vow it shan't be so , While I marry , I will tarry , and will answer no , no , no . I from Love will be excluded , e'er I'll hear and idle Tale , I will never be deluded , no , nor shall you e'er prevail , To embrace me , and disgrace me , thus to sink my heart full low , While I marry , I will tarry , and will , etc WILLIAM . Now my loving constant Betty , I will ever thee adore , For thy Answer has been witty , I will never tempt thee more : When I try'd thee , thou deny'd me , all thy answer still was No , We'll not tarry , but will Marry , then it must and shall be so . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon in Guilt-spur-street . Kind WILLIAM , Or , Constant BETTY . Let Maids beware , and shun the snare , I say berul'd by me ; Though you embrace , be perfect Chaste , from stains of Infamy . To the Tune of The Doubting Virgin . COnstant Betty that sweet Creature , she was William's hearts delight ; In the Shades he chanc'd to meet her , when Fair Phoebus shined brigh In conclusion his delusion was to bring her to his Bow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answer'd , no , no , no . Then his Betty he Embraced , hoping for to win the Field , She with modesty was graced , and resolved not to yield : She denied , he replied , do not seek my Overthrow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answer'd no , no , no . Thou hast set mine heart on fire , sweetest Creature be not coy , Grant me what I do desire , thou shalt be my only joy : Thus he Woo'd her to delude her , and to bring her to his Bow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she answer'd no , no , no . Love thou art my only treasure , then he took her by the hand , Let me now enjoy the pleasure , I will be at thy command : Don't abuse me , nor refuse me , lest it proves my overthrow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Now admit me , my sweet Betty , to salute and lay thee down , None alive I think more pretty , I will thee with pleasure Crown : Don't deny me , do but try me , from those charms such pleasures flow , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Thy obliging Eye hath wone me , dearest I am not in jest , Why should'st thou be coy and shun me , I am certainly possessed With thy Beauty for my duty is to bring thee to my Bow. Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Dearest Betty fit down by me , let us lovingly agree , Sweetest Creature don't deny me , Cupid's Dart hath wounded me : Then come near me , Love and cheer me for my heart is sinking low , Let's not dally , shall I , shall I , but she , etc Betty's Answer to William's Request . William you are much mistaken , you shall never me ensnare , In your Net I'll not be taken , therefore now your Suit forbear : I'll deny it , and defy it , for I vow it shan't be so , While I marry , I will tarry , and will answer no , no , no . I from Love will be excluded , e'er I'll hear and idle Tale , I will never be deluded , no , nor shall you e'er prevail , To embrace me , and disgrace me , thus to sink my heart full low , While I marry , I will tarry , and will , etc WILLIAM . Now my loving constant Betty , I will ever thee adore , For thy Answer has been witty , I will never tempt thee more : When I try'd thee , thou deny'd me , all thy answer still was No , We'll not tarry , but will Marry , then it must and shall be so . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon in Guilt-spur-street . 