The Skilful Doctor of Gloucestershire : OR , A new way to take Physic . This ditty does concern a Country Farmer , Who lay with his maid , not thinking to harm her , But she , poor Wench , was by her Master vild , First tempt to since , then after god with Child : But by the Doctors skill , her honest dame , Excus'd her Husband , and sav'd her maid from blame , The Doctor he hath medic [ i ] nes in store , To Cure all sorts of folks , both rich and poor . The Tune is , Beds making . A Country Farmer , as 'tis said , That had a pretty handsome Maid , He asked her a question secretly , To which she answered , by and by : And being kindly reconcil'd , The Farmer god his Maid with-Child . And after he had done the deed , His heart poor man did almost bleed ; With inward grief and trembling fear , Doubting his Wife should of it hear : The Maid did likewise sighs and groan , And to her Master made great moan . Wherefore all dangers to prevent , Unto a poor youngman he went , Saying , ten pounds he would him give , And be a friend while he did live : So thou wilt finish up my st [ r ] ife , And take my Maid to be thy Wife . The youngman thus to him reply'd , Your suit to me must be deny'd , For I will neither Reap nor Mow The Bastard-seed that you did sow : Get a workman where you can , quoth he , For I your Hireling will not be . The Farmer being thus den'd , Another practice he soon try'd ; There was a Doctor he knew well That three miles from his house did dwell Unto this Doctor he told all , That did of late to him befall . The Doctor answered him , and told , If you'l give me ten pounds in Gold , I'le teach you such a pretty trick , I'm sure you never herd the like : To save your Maid and you from blame , And your Wife shall yield unto the same To this the Farmer soon agreed , And down he laid ten pounds with speed , The Money pleas'd the Doctor well , Who straight his Money began to tell , Mark well what I shall say , quoth he , And learn this Counsel now of me . With speed run home and tell your wife , That you shall surely loose your life , By reason of a grievous pain , That in your belly does remain : There is no way but you must die , Unless you seek some remedy . prey her with all the speed may be , To bring your Water unto me , And when she comes , let me alone , I'le show such skill as ne'r was shown : Such stories to her i'le unfold , The like strange news was never told . I Will persuade her thus , and say , Last time that you together lay , The Moon it was Eclipsed strange , And nature did her courses change ; Mars by Dame Venus was beguil'd , And so your wife god you with Child . This bargain made , brought much content Home in all haste the Farmer went ; And told his Wife so strange a tale , As made her countenance look pale : Dear wife , quoth he , I am perplexed , Never was man before so vexed . I am encumbered with great pains , From top to toe , through all my veins ; My back and sides grieve me so soar , Such pains I never felt before : But yet the greatest pain I tell you , Lies rumbling up and down my belly . Husband , quoth she , I can you tell , Of one that soon can make you well He cures , as Idem understand , All diseases that he takes in hand ; And if you please to have it so , I'le to him with your Water go . Next morning with a good intent , The goodwife to the Doctor went ; And shows to him her Husbands water , Now mark the jest that follows after : Cox-body , quoth the Doctor mild , Thy Husband surely is with-Child . The woman she was much amaz'd , And on the Doctor strangely gaz'd ; Good Sir , in kindness now tell me , How such things in a Man may be ? I will , quoth he , make you no doubt , And time at last will bring it out . When Luna last was in the Eclipse , You with your Husband joined Lips , Then Jupiter being wrapped in thunder , Turn'd Venus up , while Mars lay under By which Conjunction well I wot , Your husband then with Child was god Alas , alas , then said his wife IIs there no means to save his life ? I would not for a thousand pound . My husband he should fallen toth' ground ; Faith , quoth the Doctor , there is none , No ways to save his life but one . Kind loving Sir , then answered she , If you will be so good to me , To tell how I his life may save , I'le give whatever you will have : No cost nor pains that I will spare , To save his life whom I love so dear : But first , quoth he , I'le have you swear , And also have a special care , To let no body know while you live , What Physic he is to receive ; She straightway bound it with and Oath , I'le keep your counsel by my troth . The Doctor's Potion of Physic . Then mark me well what's to be done , Each night 'bout setting of the Sun , His Supper then you must provide , Of Eggs , and some choice Meats beside : And for to strengthen his weak back You must give him a pint of Sack . Which being done , put him to bed , And lay soft Pillows under his head ; Then make for him a Posset fine , With Sugar and sweet Muscadine ; Commixed with Cinnamon and Mace , And let him swallow it down apace . When he hath slept and hour or twain , Then you must come to him again , And bring with you a lusty Maid , Which to his Belly must be laid : So let them merrily sleep together , And lovingly embrace each other . This course you must for 3 weeks take , And then besure that it will make The pain too from his back and side , The Maid the torment shall abide , And afterwards in little space , She will bring forth a babe of Grace . And when your Maid is brought to Bed , Your self must lie down in her stead ; And because nothing must be known , Folks must believe the Child's your own Besure you take this course said he , And so your Husband eas'd shall be . The woman having herd this news , Ran home in haste , how could she choose Where she did see her Husband lie , Like one just ready for to die : Then presently she did unfold , All that the Doctor had her told . Alas , quoth he , such pangs I have , There is no means my life to save ; Unless you do a Posset make , To cure my belly of the ache : Wherefore the Woman out of hand , Did as the Doctor did command . A Supper of most dainty meat , She made him ready for to eat , And because he should no Physic lack , She after Supper gave him Sack : Then kept him warm within his bed And with sweet Posset she him fed . This being done , with Cupids aid , She god the good will of her Maid , To lie and keep her Master warm , And said , he should do her no harm ; The Maid at first seem'd loath to do ; But at the last yielded thereto . And as the Doctor did foretell , So every thing in order fell , The Maid in time was brought to bed , The good wife lay down in her stead : The man was of his burden eas'd , The Child at Nurse , and all are pleas'd You that these verses hear or Read , If of this Doctor you stand in need , Inquire him out where he does dwell , And surely he will use you well ; He'l give you Physic to your mind , So that your purses be well lin'd . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . The Skilful Doctor of Gloucestershire : OR , A new way to take Physic . This ditty does concern a Country Farmer , Who lay with his maid , not thinking to harm her , But she , poor Wench , was by her Master vild , First tempt to since , then after god with Child : But by the Doctors skill , her honest dame , Excus'd her Husband , and sav'd her maid from blame , The Doctor he hath medic [ i ] nes in store , To Cure all sorts of folks , both rich and poor . The Tune is , Beds making . A Country Farmer , as 'tis said , That had a pretty handsome Maid , He asked her a question secretly , To which she answered , by and by : And being kindly reconcil'd , The Farmer god his Maid with-Child . And after he had done the deed , His heart poor man did almost bleed ; With inward grief and trembling fear , Doubting his Wife should of it hear : The Maid did likewise sighs and groan , And to her Master made great moan . Wherefore all dangers to prevent , Unto a poor youngman he went , Saying , ten pounds he would him give , And be a friend while he did live : So thou wilt finish up my st [ r ] ife , And take my Maid to be thy Wife . The youngman thus to him reply'd , Your suit to me must be deny'd , For I will neither Reap nor Mow The Bastard-seed that you did sow : Get a workman where you can , quoth he , For I your Hireling will not be . The Farmer being thus den'd , Another practice he soon try'd ; There was a Doctor he knew well That three miles from his house did dwell Unto this Doctor he told all , That did of late to him befall . The Doctor answered him , and told , If you'l give me ten pounds in Gold , I'le teach you such a pretty trick , I'm sure you never herd the like : To save your Maid and you from blame , And your Wife shall yield unto the same To this the Farmer soon agreed , And down he laid ten pounds with speed , The Money pleas'd the Doctor well , Who straight his Money began to tell , Mark well what I shall say , quoth he , And learn this Counsel now of me . With speed run home and tell your wife , That you shall surely loose your life , By reason of a grievous pain , That in your belly does remain : There is no way but you must die , Unless you seek some remedy . prey her with all the speed may be , To bring your Water unto me , And when she comes , let me alone , I'le show such skill as ne'r was shown : Such stories to her i'le unfold , The like strange news was never told . I Will persuade her thus , and say , Last time that you together lay , The Moon it was Eclipsed strange , And nature did her courses change ; Mars by Dame Venus was beguil'd , And so your wife god you with Child . This bargain made , brought much content Home in all haste the Farmer went ; And told his Wife so strange a tale , As made her countenance look pale : Dear wife , quoth he , I am perplexed , Never was man before so vexed . I am encumbered with great pains , From top to toe , through all my veins ; My back and sides grieve me so soar , Such pains I never felt before : But yet the greatest pain I tell you , Lies rumbling up and down my belly . Husband , quoth she , I can you tell , Of one that soon can make you well He cures , as Idem understand , All diseases that he takes in hand ; And if you please to have it so , I'le to him with your Water go . Next morning with a good intent , The goodwife to the Doctor went ; And shows to him her Husbands water , Now mark the jest that follows after : Cox-body , quoth the Doctor mild , Thy Husband surely is with-Child . The woman she was much amaz'd , And on the Doctor strangely gaz'd ; Good Sir , in kindness now tell me , How such things in a Man may be ? I will , quoth he , make you no doubt , And time at last will bring it out . When Luna last was in the Eclipse , You with your Husband joined Lips , Then Jupiter being wrapped in thunder , Turn'd Venus up , while Mars lay under By which Conjunction well I wot , Your husband then with Child was god Alas , alas , then said his wife IIs there no means to save his life ? I would not for a thousand pound . My husband he should fallen toth' ground ; Faith , quoth the Doctor , there is none , No ways to save his life but one . Kind loving Sir , then answered she , If you will be so good to me , To tell how I his life may save , I'le give whatever you will have : No cost nor pains that I will spare , To save his life whom I love so dear : But first , quoth he , I'le have you swear , And also have a special care , To let no body know while you live , What Physic he is to receive ; She straightway bound it with and Oath , I'le keep your counsel by my troth . The Doctor's Potion of Physic . Then mark me well what's to be done , Each night 'bout setting of the Sun , His Supper then you must provide , Of Eggs , and some choice Meats beside : And for to strengthen his weak back You must give him a pint of Sack . Which being done , put him to bed , And lay soft Pillows under his head ; Then make for him a Posset fine , With Sugar and sweet Muscadine ; Commixed with Cinnamon and Mace , And let him swallow it down apace . When he hath slept and hour or twain , Then you must come to him again , And bring with you a lusty Maid , Which to his Belly must be laid : So let them merrily sleep together , And lovingly embrace each other . This course you must for 3 weeks take , And then besure that it will make The pain too from his back and side , The Maid the torment shall abide , And afterwards in little space , She will bring forth a babe of Grace . And when your Maid is brought to Bed , Your self must lie down in her stead ; And because nothing must be known , Folks must believe the Child's your own Besure you take this course said he , And so your Husband eas'd shall be . The woman having herd this news , Ran home in haste , how could she choose Where she did see her Husband lie , Like one just ready for to die : Then presently she did unfold , All that the Doctor had her told . Alas , quoth he , such pangs I have , There is no means my life to save ; Unless you do a Posset make , To cure my belly of the ache : Wherefore the Woman out of hand , Did as the Doctor did command . A Supper of most dainty meat , She made him ready for to eat , And because he should no Physic lack , She after Supper gave him Sack : Then kept him warm within his bed And with sweet Posset she him fed . This being done , with Cupids aid , She god the good will of her Maid , To lie and keep her Master warm , And said , he should do her no harm ; The Maid at first seem'd loath to do ; But at the last yielded thereto . And as the Doctor did foretell , So every thing in order fell , The Maid in time was brought to bed , The good wife lay down in her stead : The man was of his burden eas'd , The Child at Nurse , and all are pleas'd You that these verses hear or Read , If of this Doctor you stand in need , Inquire him out where he does dwell , And surely he will use you well ; He'l give you Physic to your mind , So that your purses be well lin'd . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . The Skilful Doctor of Gloucestershire : OR , A new way to take Physic . This ditty does concern a Country Farmer , Who lay with his maid , not thinking to harm her , But she , poor Wench , was by her Master vild , First tempt to since , then after god with Child : But by the Doctors skill , her honest dame , Excus'd her Husband , and sav'd her maid from blame , The Doctor he hath medic [ i ] nes in store , To Cure all sorts of folks , both rich and poor . The Tune is , Beds making . A Country Farmer , as 'tis said , That had a pretty handsome Maid , He asked her a question secretly , To which she answered , by and by : And being kindly reconcil'd , The Farmer god his Maid with-Child . And after he had done the deed , His heart poor man did almost bleed ; With inward grief and trembling fear , Doubting his Wife should of it hear : The Maid did likewise sighs and groan , And to her Master made great moan . Wherefore all dangers to prevent , Unto a poor youngman he went , Saying , ten pounds he would him give , And be a friend while he did live : So thou wilt finish up my st [ r ] ife , And take my Maid to be thy Wife . The youngman thus to him reply'd , Your suit to me must be deny'd , For I will neither Reap nor Mow The Bastard-seed that you did sow : Get a workman where you can , quoth he , For I your Hireling will not be . The Farmer being thus den'd , Another practice he soon try'd ; There was a Doctor he knew well That three miles from his house did dwell Unto this Doctor he told all , That did of late to him befall . The Doctor answered him , and told , If you'l give me ten pounds in Gold , I'le teach you such a pretty trick , I'm sure you never herd the like : To save your Maid and you from blame , And your Wife shall yield unto the same To this the Farmer soon agreed , And down he laid ten pounds with speed , The Money pleas'd the Doctor well , Who straight his Money began to tell , Mark well what I shall say , quoth he , And learn this Counsel now of me . With speed run home and tell your wife , That you shall surely loose your life , By reason of a grievous pain , That in your belly does remain : There is no way but you must die , Unless you seek some remedy . prey her with all the speed may be , To bring your Water unto me , And when she comes , let me alone , I'le show such skill as ne'r was shown : Such stories to her i'le unfold , The like strange news was never told . I Will persuade her thus , and say , Last time that you together lay , The Moon it was Eclipsed strange , And nature did her courses change ; Mars by Dame Venus was beguil'd , And so your wife god you with Child . This bargain made , brought much content Home in all haste the Farmer went ; And told his Wife so strange a tale , As made her countenance look pale : Dear wife , quoth he , I am perplexed , Never was man before so vexed . I am encumbered with great pains , From top to toe , through all my veins ; My back and sides grieve me so soar , Such pains I never felt before : But yet the greatest pain I tell you , Lies rumbling up and down my belly . Husband , quoth she , I can you tell , Of one that soon can make you well He cures , as Idem understand , All diseases that he takes in hand ; And if you please to have it so , I'le to him with your Water go . Next morning with a good intent , The goodwife to the Doctor went ; And shows to him her Husbands water , Now mark the jest that follows after : Cox-body , quoth the Doctor mild , Thy Husband surely is with-Child . The woman she was much amaz'd , And on the Doctor strangely gaz'd ; Good Sir , in kindness now tell me , How such things in a Man may be ? I will , quoth he , make you no doubt , And time at last will bring it out . When Luna last was in the Eclipse , You with your Husband joined Lips , Then Jupiter being wrapped in thunder , Turn'd Venus up , while Mars lay under By which Conjunction well I wot , Your husband then with Child was god Alas , alas , then said his wife IIs there no means to save his life ? I would not for a thousand pound . My husband he should fallen toth' ground ; Faith , quoth the Doctor , there is none , No ways to save his life but one . Kind loving Sir , then answered she , If you will be so good to me , To tell how I his life may save , I'le give whatever you will have : No cost nor pains that I will spare , To save his life whom I love so dear : But first , quoth he , I'le have you swear , And also have a special care , To let no body know while you live , What Physic he is to receive ; She straightway bound it with and Oath , I'le keep your counsel by my troth . The Doctor's Potion of Physic . Then mark me well what's to be done , Each night 'bout setting of the Sun , His Supper then you must provide , Of Eggs , and some choice Meats beside : And for to strengthen his weak back You must give him a pint of Sack . Which being done , put him to bed , And lay soft Pillows under his head ; Then make for him a Posset fine , With Sugar and sweet Muscadine ; Commixed with Cinnamon and Mace , And let him swallow it down apace . When he hath slept and hour or twain , Then you must come to him again , And bring with you a lusty Maid , Which to his Belly must be laid : So let them merrily sleep together , And lovingly embrace each other . This course you must for 3 weeks take , And then besure that it will make The pain too from his back and side , The Maid the torment shall abide , And afterwards in little space , She will bring forth a babe of Grace . And when your Maid is brought to Bed , Your self must lie down in her stead ; And because nothing must be known , Folks must believe the Child's your own Besure you take this course said he , And so your Husband eas'd shall be . The woman having herd this news , Ran home in haste , how could she choose Where she did see her Husband lie , Like one just ready for to die : Then presently she did unfold , All that the Doctor had her told . Alas , quoth he , such pangs I have , There is no means my life to save ; Unless you do a Posset make , To cure my belly of the ache : Wherefore the Woman out of hand , Did as the Doctor did command . A Supper of most dainty meat , She made him ready for to eat , And because he should no Physic lack , She after Supper gave him Sack : Then kept him warm within his bed And with sweet Posset she him fed . This being done , with Cupids aid , She god the good will of her Maid , To lie and keep her Master warm , And said , he should do her no harm ; The Maid at first seem'd loath to do ; But at the last yielded thereto . And as the Doctor did foretell , So every thing in order fell , The Maid in time was brought to bed , The good wife lay down in her stead : The man was of his burden eas'd , The Child at Nurse , and all are pleas'd You that these verses hear or Read , If of this Doctor you stand in need , Inquire him out where he does dwell , And surely he will use you well ; He'l give you Physic to your mind , So that your purses be well lin'd . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . The Skilful Doctor of Gloucestershire : OR , A new way to take Physic . This ditty does concern a Country Farmer , Who lay with his maid , not thinking to harm her , But she , poor Wench , was by her Master vild , First tempt to since , then after god with Child : But by the Doctors skill , her honest dame , Excus'd her Husband , and sav'd her maid from blame , The Doctor he hath medic [ i ] nes in store , To Cure all sorts of folks , both rich and poor . The Tune is , Beds making . A Country Farmer , as 'tis said , That had a pretty handsome Maid , He asked her a question secretly , To which she answered , by and by : And being kindly reconcil'd , The Farmer god his Maid with-Child . And after he had done the deed , His heart poor man did almost bleed ; With inward grief and trembling fear , Doubting his Wife should of it hear : The Maid did likewise sighs and groan , And to her Master made great moan . Wherefore all dangers to prevent , Unto a poor youngman he went , Saying , ten pounds he would him give , And be a friend while he did live : So thou wilt finish up my st [ r ] ife , And take my Maid to be thy Wife . The youngman thus to him reply'd , Your suit to me must be deny'd , For I will neither Reap nor Mow The Bastard-seed that you did sow : Get a workman where you can , quoth he , For I your Hireling will not be . The Farmer being thus den'd , Another practice he soon try'd ; There was a Doctor he knew well That three miles from his house did dwell Unto this Doctor he told all , That did of late to him befall . The Doctor answered him , and told , If you'l give me ten pounds in Gold , I'le teach you such a pretty trick , I'm sure you never herd the like : To save your Maid and you from blame , And your Wife shall yield unto the same To this the Farmer soon agreed , And down he laid ten pounds with speed , The Money pleas'd the Doctor well , Who straight his Money began to tell , Mark well what I shall say , quoth he , And learn this Counsel now of me . With speed run home and tell your wife , That you shall surely loose your life , By reason of a grievous pain , That in your belly does remain : There is no way but you must die , Unless you seek some remedy . prey her with all the speed may be , To bring your Water unto me , And when she comes , let me alone , I'le show such skill as ne'r was shown : Such stories to her i'le unfold , The like strange news was never told . I Will persuade her thus , and say , Last time that you together lay , The Moon it was Eclipsed strange , And nature did her courses change ; Mars by Dame Venus was beguil'd , And so your wife god you with Child . This bargain made , brought much content Home in all haste the Farmer went ; And told his Wife so strange a tale , As made her countenance look pale : Dear wife , quoth he , I am perplexed , Never was man before so vexed . I am encumbered with great pains , From top to toe , through all my veins ; My back and sides grieve me so soar , Such pains I never felt before : But yet the greatest pain I tell you , Lies rumbling up and down my belly . Husband , quoth she , I can you tell , Of one that soon can make you well He cures , as Idem understand , All diseases that he takes in hand ; And if you please to have it so , I'le to him with your Water go . Next morning with a good intent , The goodwife to the Doctor went ; And shows to him her Husbands water , Now mark the jest that follows after : Cox-body , quoth the Doctor mild , Thy Husband surely is with-Child . The woman she was much amaz'd , And on the Doctor strangely gaz'd ; Good Sir , in kindness now tell me , How such things in a Man may be ? I will , quoth he , make you no doubt , And time at last will bring it out . When Luna last was in the Eclipse , You with your Husband joined Lips , Then Jupiter being wrapped in thunder , Turn'd Venus up , while Mars lay under By which Conjunction well I wot , Your husband then with Child was god Alas , alas , then said his wife IIs there no means to save his life ? I would not for a thousand pound . My husband he should fallen toth' ground ; Faith , quoth the Doctor , there is none , No ways to save his life but one . Kind loving Sir , then answered she , If you will be so good to me , To tell how I his life may save , I'le give whatever you will have : No cost nor pains that I will spare , To save his life whom I love so dear : But first , quoth he , I'le have you swear , And also have a special care , To let no body know while you live , What Physic he is to receive ; She straightway bound it with and Oath , I'le keep your counsel by my troth . The Doctor's Potion of Physic . Then mark me well what's to be done , Each night 'bout setting of the Sun , His Supper then you must provide , Of Eggs , and some choice Meats beside : And for to strengthen his weak back You must give him a pint of Sack . Which being done , put him to bed , And lay soft Pillows under his head ; Then make for him a Posset fine , With Sugar and sweet Muscadine ; Commixed with Cinnamon and Mace , And let him swallow it down apace . When he hath slept and hour or twain , Then you must come to him again , And bring with you a lusty Maid , Which to his Belly must be laid : So let them merrily sleep together , And lovingly embrace each other . This course you must for 3 weeks take , And then besure that it will make The pain too from his back and side , The Maid the torment shall abide , And afterwards in little space , She will bring forth a babe of Grace . And when your Maid is brought to Bed , Your self must lie down in her stead ; And because nothing must be known , Folks must believe the Child's your own Besure you take this course said he , And so your Husband eas'd shall be . The woman having herd this news , Ran home in haste , how could she choose Where she did see her Husband lie , Like one just ready for to die : Then presently she did unfold , All that the Doctor had her told . Alas , quoth he , such pangs I have , There is no means my life to save ; Unless you do a Posset make , To cure my belly of the ache : Wherefore the Woman out of hand , Did as the Doctor did command . A Supper of most dainty meat , She made him ready for to eat , And because he should no Physic lack , She after Supper gave him Sack : Then kept him warm within his bed And with sweet Posset she him fed . This being done , with Cupids aid , She god the good will of her Maid , To lie and keep her Master warm , And said , he should do her no harm ; The Maid at first seem'd loath to do ; But at the last yielded thereto . And as the Doctor did foretell , So every thing in order fell , The Maid in time was brought to bed , The good wife lay down in her stead : The man was of his burden eas'd , The Child at Nurse , and all are pleas'd You that these verses hear or Read , If of this Doctor you stand in need , Inquire him out where he does dwell , And surely he will use you well ; He'l give you Physic to your mind , So that your purses be well lin'd . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . 