The Oxfordshire TRAGEDY : Or , The Death of Four Lovers . NEar Woodstock Town in Oxfordshire , As I walk'd forth to take the Air , To view the Fields and Meadows round , Methought I herd a mournful Found . Down by a Crystal Riverside , A gallant Bower I espy'd , Where a fair Lady made great Moan , With many a Sighs and bitter Groan , Alas ! quoth she , my Love's unkind , My Sighs and Tears he will not mind . But he's so cruel unto me , Which causes all my Misery . My Father is a worthy Knight , My Mother is a Lady bright , And I their only Child and Heir Yet Love has brought me to Despair , A wealthy Squire lived by , Who on my Beauty cast and Eye : He courted me both Day and Night To be his Jewel and Delight . To me these Words he often said , Fair , beauteous , handsome , comely Maid , Oh! pity me , I you implore , For it is you I do adore . He still did beg me to be kind , And ease his Love tormented Mind ; For if said he , you should deny , For Love of you I soon shall die . These Words pierced my tender Heart , I soon did yield to ease his Smart . And unto him made this Reply , For Love of you I soon shall die . With that he flew unto my Arms , And swore I had a thousand Charms , He call'd me Angel , Saint , and he Did swear forever true to be . Soon after he had gain'd my Heart , He cruelly did from me part . Another Maid he does pursue , And to his Vows he bids adieu . 'Tis he that makes me to lament , He's the Cause of my Discontent . He hath caused my sad Despair , And now occasions this my Care . The Lady round the Meadows run , And gathered Flowers as they sprung , Of every sort she there did pull , Until she god her Apron full . Now here's a Flower she did say . Is nam Heart's Ease Night and Day , I wish I could that Flower find , For to ease my Lovesick Mind . But o ! alas ! 'tis all in vain , For me to sighs and to complain : There's nothing that can ease my Smart , For his Disdain will break my Heart . The Green served as a Bed , And Flowers a Pillow for her Head , She laid her down and nothing spoke , Alas ! for Love her Heart was broke : But when I found her Corpse cold , I went to her true Love , and told What unto her had befell , I'm glad , said he , she is so well . Did she think I so found could be , That I could fancy none but she : Man was not made for one alone , I take delight to see her Moan . O wicked Man I find thou art , Thus to break a Lady's Heart ; In Abraham's Bosom may she sleep , While thy wicked Soul does weep . The ANSWER . A Second Part I bring you here , Of the fair Maid of Oxfordshire , Who lately broke her Heart for Love Of one that did unconstant prove . A youthful Squire most unjust , When he beheld this Lass at first , A thousand solemn Vows he made , And so her yielding Heart betray'd . She mourning broke her Heart and dy'd , Feeling the Shades on ev'ry side , With dying Groans and grievous Cries , As Tears were flowing from her Eyes . The Beauty which did once appear On her sweet Cheeks so fair and clear , Was waxed pale , her Life was fled . He herd at length that she was dead . He was not sorry in the least , But cheerfully resolv'd to feast And quite forgotten her Beauty bright , Whom he so basely ruin'd quite . Now when this youthful Maid , Within her silent Tomb was laid , The Squire thinking all was well , He should in Peace and Quiet dwell . Soon after this he was possessed With various thoughts which broke his Rest. Sometime he thought her Groans he herd , Sometime her ghastly Ghost appear'd . With a sad Visage pale and grim And ghastly Looks she cast on him . He often started back and cry'd , Where shall I go myself to hide ? Here I am haunted Night and Day , Sometime methinks I hear her say , Perfidious Man , false and unkind , Henceforth you shall no Comfort find . If through the Fields I chance to go , Where she received her Overthrow . Methinks I see her in Despair , And if at home , I meet her there . No Place is free from torment now , Alas ! I broke a solemn Vow , Which once I made , but now at last It does my worldly Glory blast . Since my Unkindness did destroy My dearest Love and only Joy . My wretched Life must ended be , Now must I die and come to thee . His Rapier from his Side he drew And pierc'd his Body thro' and through . So he drop'd down in Purple Gore , Just where she did sometime before . He buried was within the Grave Of his true Love , and thus you have , A sad Account of his hard Fate , Who dy'd in Oxfordshire of late . The Lovers Farewell . FOrgive me , if your Looks I thought Did once some Change discover ; To be too jealous is the Fault Of every wounded Lover .. Might truth those kind Reproaches show , Which you do blame severely , A Sighs , alas ! you little know What 'tis to love sincerely The Torments of a long Despair I did in Silence smother . But 'tis a Pain I cannot bear , To think you love another . My Fate , alas ! depends on you , I am but what you make me Divinely blessed if you prove true . Undone , if you forsake me , In thee I place my chief Delight , I seek no other Pleasure : Then do not all my Hope's destroy , Who loves thee out of Measure . Then do not all my Hope's destroy , Who loves thee out of Measure . Forbear to triumph in Disdain , Since here I lie and languish ; True Love is a tormenting Pain , And fills my Soul with anguish . The silent Night I spend in vain , And melting Lamentation ; And yet not Glance of Love appears , But utter Detestation . Regarding not my piteous Moan , My Sighs and sad lamenting . Your Heart as Flint or Marblestone , Feels not the least relenting . Your Beauty gave the fatal wound , And did at first allure me . In Chains of Love I now lie down , And you alone can cure me . Cast not a loyal Love away , Who at your Feet lies bleeding . Unto my Sighs one Smile convey , For which my Tears are pleading . Why should a charming Beauty bright , Resolve to be so cruel ? O let me not be ruin'd quite , In Love's destroying Fuel . See how my Eyes like Fountains flow , In crystal Tears before thee , So do not seek the Overthrow Of one that does adore thee . Behold I am thy captive Slave , Your wounded Slave believe me ; And thou alone this Life can save , And therefore now reprieve me , The wound you gave has pierc'd my Heart , And you no Pity give me : Yet I cannot forbear to love , Altho' with Scorn you kill me . If thus you are resolv'd to frown , And slight my friendly Favour , Soon to my Grave I will go down , Farewell , farewell , forever . I find she triumphs in Disdain , And still denies me Blessing ; Why should I live to feel this Pain , That is beyond expressing ? This said , his naked Sword he drew , And to his Heart he sent i And as he bid this World adieu , She bitterly lamented . Crying , I was unfortunate , Would I had dy'd before him Thus did she weep when 'twas too late , Her Tears could not restore him . AND is my valiant Squire gone , The Glory of the Nation ? Then all my Joys are from me fled , Behold my Lamentation , These Eyes of mine like Fountains flow , As here you may discover : Because I prov'd the Overthrow Of and entire Lover . Ten thousand times I wish in vain That I had never slighted . My worthy Squire with Disdain When he would fain have plighted , A true and solemn Vow to me , And dearly did adore me . But now to my Grief I see He bleeding lies before me . All in the frozen Arms of Death , My loyal Love lies sleeping , Bereav'd of mortal Life and Breath , This causes all my weeping . My very Heart for Heaviness E'er long will break asunder ; Nor am I able to express , The Grief that I lie under . I must confess I stood a while , And herd this mournful Ditty ; Without returning him a Smile , Or any Glance of Pity ; Because I was resolved to try His Steadfastness of Wooing , But little did I think that I Should thus have prov'd his Ruin . Upon the Sword he laid his Hand , In Grief and Desperation : Conceal'd I could no longer stand , But strait with Admiration , More swift than Eagle's Wings I flew To him and Kisses gave him : But O! the Sword was thro' and thro' Alas ! I could not save him . These Words he utter'd as he dy'd , Farewell my dearest Jewel ; You should have been my lawful Bride , Had you not been so cruel To leave a Lover all alone , In sorrow brokenhearted ; This said , than with a dying Groan , He instantly departed . Bathed in Streams of purple Gore , My weeping Eyes beheld him ; My golden tresses then I tore , Crying , my Frown The Oxfordshire TRAGEDY : Or , The Death of Four Lovers . NEar Woodstock Town in Oxfordshire , As I walk'd forth to take the Air , To view the Fields and Meadows round , Methought I herd a mournful Found . Down by a Crystal Riverside , A gallant Bower I espy'd , Where a fair Lady made great Moan , With many a Sighs and bitter Groan , Alas ! quoth she , my Love's unkind , My Sighs and Tears he will not mind . But he's so cruel unto me , Which causes all my Misery . My Father is a worthy Knight , My Mother is a Lady bright , And I their only Child and Heir Yet Love has brought me to Despair , A wealthy Squire lived by , Who on my Beauty cast and Eye : He courted me both Day and Night To be his Jewel and Delight . To me these Words he often said , Fair , beauteous , handsome , comely Maid , Oh! pity me , I you implore , For it is you I do adore . He still did beg me to be kind , And ease his Love tormented Mind ; For if said he , you should deny , For Love of you I soon shall die . These Words pierced my tender Heart , I soon did yield to ease his Smart . And unto him made this Reply , For Love of you I soon shall die . With that he flew unto my Arms , And swore I had a thousand Charms , He call'd me Angel , Saint , and he Did swear forever true to be . Soon after he had gain'd my Heart , He cruelly did from me part . Another Maid he does pursue , And to his Vows he bids adieu . 'Tis he that makes me to lament , He's the Cause of my Discontent . He hath caused my sad Despair , And now occasions this my Care . The Lady round the Meadows run , And gathered Flowers as they sprung , Of every sort she there did pull , Until she god her Apron full . Now here's a Flower she did say . Is nam Heart's Ease Night and Day , I wish I could that Flower find , For to ease my Lovesick Mind . But o ! alas ! 'tis all in vain , For me to sighs and to complain : There's nothing that can ease my Smart , For his Disdain will break my Heart . The Green served as a Bed , And Flowers a Pillow for her Head , She laid her down and nothing spoke , Alas ! for Love her Heart was broke : But when I found her Corpse cold , I went to her true Love , and told What unto her had befell , I'm glad , said he , she is so well . Did she think I so found could be , That I could fancy none but she : Man was not made for one alone , I take delight to see her Moan . O wicked Man I find thou art , Thus to break a Lady's Heart ; In Abraham's Bosom may she sleep , While thy wicked Soul does weep . The ANSWER . A Second Part I bring you here , Of the fair Maid of Oxfordshire , Who lately broke her Heart for Love Of one that did unconstant prove . A youthful Squire most unjust , When he beheld this Lass at first , A thousand solemn Vows he made , And so her yielding Heart betray'd . She mourning broke her Heart and dy'd , Feeling the Shades on ev'ry side , With dying Groans and grievous Cries , As Tears were flowing from her Eyes . The Beauty which did once appear On her sweet Cheeks so fair and clear , Was waxed pale , her Life was fled . He herd at length that she was dead . He was not sorry in the least , But cheerfully resolv'd to feast And quite forgotten her Beauty bright , Whom he so basely ruin'd quite . Now when this youthful Maid , Within her silent Tomb was laid , The Squire thinking all was well , He should in Peace and Quiet dwell . Soon after this he was possessed With various thoughts which broke his Rest. Sometime he thought her Groans he herd , Sometime her ghastly Ghost appear'd . With a sad Visage pale and grim And ghastly Looks she cast on him . He often started back and cry'd , Where shall I go myself to hide ? Here I am haunted Night and Day , Sometime methinks I hear her say , Perfidious Man , false and unkind , Henceforth you shall no Comfort find . If through the Fields I chance to go , Where she received her Overthrow . Methinks I see her in Despair , And if at home , I meet her there . No Place is free from torment now , Alas ! I broke a solemn Vow , Which once I made , but now at last It does my worldly Glory blast . Since my Unkindness did destroy My dearest Love and only Joy . My wretched Life must ended be , Now must I die and come to thee . His Rapier from his Side he drew And pierc'd his Body thro' and through . So he drop'd down in Purple Gore , Just where she did sometime before . He buried was within the Grave Of his true Love , and thus you have , A sad Account of his hard Fate , Who dy'd in Oxfordshire of late . The Lovers Farewell . FOrgive me , if your Looks I thought Did once some Change discover ; To be too jealous is the Fault Of every wounded Lover .. Might truth those kind Reproaches show , Which you do blame severely , A Sighs , alas ! you little know What 'tis to love sincerely The Torments of a long Despair I did in Silence smother . But 'tis a Pain I cannot bear , To think you love another . My Fate , alas ! depends on you , I am but what you make me Divinely blessed if you prove true . Undone , if you forsake me , In thee I place my chief Delight , I seek no other Pleasure : Then do not all my Hope's destroy , Who loves thee out of Measure . Then do not all my Hope's destroy , Who loves thee out of Measure . Forbear to triumph in Disdain , Since here I lie and languish ; True Love is a tormenting Pain , And fills my Soul with anguish . The silent Night I spend in vain , And melting Lamentation ; And yet not Glance of Love appears , But utter Detestation . Regarding not my piteous Moan , My Sighs and sad lamenting . Your Heart as Flint or Marblestone , Feels not the least relenting . Your Beauty gave the fatal wound , And did at first allure me . In Chains of Love I now lie down , And you alone can cure me . Cast not a loyal Love away , Who at your Feet lies bleeding . Unto my Sighs one Smile convey , For which my Tears are pleading . Why should a charming Beauty bright , Resolve to be so cruel ? O let me not be ruin'd quite , In Love's destroying Fuel . See how my Eyes like Fountains flow , In crystal Tears before thee , So do not seek the Overthrow Of one that does adore thee . Behold I am thy captive Slave , Your wounded Slave believe me ; And thou alone this Life can save , And therefore now reprieve me , The wound you gave has pierc'd my Heart , And you no Pity give me : Yet I cannot forbear to love , Altho' with Scorn you kill me . If thus you are resolv'd to frown , And slight my friendly Favour , Soon to my Grave I will go down , Farewell , farewell , forever . I find she triumphs in Disdain , And still denies me Blessing ; Why should I live to feel this Pain , That is beyond expressing ? This said , his naked Sword he drew , And to his Heart he sent i And as he bid this World adieu , She bitterly lamented . Crying , I was unfortunate , Would I had dy'd before him Thus did she weep when 'twas too late , Her Tears could not restore him . AND is my valiant Squire gone , The Glory of the Nation ? Then all my Joys are from me fled , Behold my Lamentation , These Eyes of mine like Fountains flow , As here you may discover : Because I prov'd the Overthrow Of and entire Lover . Ten thousand times I wish in vain That I had never slighted . My worthy Squire with Disdain When he would fain have plighted , A true and solemn Vow to me , And dearly did adore me . But now to my Grief I see He bleeding lies before me . All in the frozen Arms of Death , My loyal Love lies sleeping , Bereav'd of mortal Life and Breath , This causes all my weeping . My very Heart for Heaviness E'er long will break asunder ; Nor am I able to express , The Grief that I lie under . I must confess I stood a while , And herd this mournful Ditty ; Without returning him a Smile , Or any Glance of Pity ; Because I was resolved to try His Steadfastness of Wooing , But little did I think that I Should thus have prov'd his Ruin . Upon the Sword he laid his Hand , In Grief and Desperation : Conceal'd I could no longer stand , But strait with Admiration , More swift than Eagle's Wings I flew To him and Kisses gave him : But O! the Sword was thro' and thro' Alas ! I could not save him . These Words he utter'd as he dy'd , Farewell my dearest Jewel ; You should have been my lawful Bride , Had you not been so cruel To leave a Lover all alone , In sorrow brokenhearted ; This said , than with a dying Groan , He instantly departed . Bathed in Streams of purple Gore , My weeping Eyes beheld him ; My golden tresses then I tore , Crying , my Frowns have kill'd him ? For being of all Hope's bereft , Life's thread he vow'd to sever : Now he is gone , and I am left , To mourn his Loss forever . But why should I presume to live , Here in this World behind him . No , No , the fatal Stroke I'll give , Then I perhaps may find him . In the Elysian Shades below , Where bleeding Lovers wander : Still venting of their Grief and Woe . Which here they had lain under . Then from his lovely Breast she drew The Sword with Might and Power : Expressing of these mournful Words , Now comes the fatal Hour , That I must leave the World , for why My Dear is gone before me : The Pattern of true Loyalty , Who did in Life adore me . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . s have kill'd him ? For being of all Hope's bereft , Life's thread he vow'd to sever : Now he is gone , and I am left , To mourn his Loss forever . But why should I presume to live , Here in this World behind him . No , No , the fatal Stroke I'll give , Then I perhaps may find him . In the Elysian Shades below , Where bleeding Lovers wander : Still venting of their Grief and Woe . Which here they had lain under . Then from his lovely Breast she drew The Sword with Might and Power : Expressing of these mournful Words , Now comes the fatal Hour , That I must leave the World , for why My Dear is gone before me : The Pattern of true Loyalty , Who did in Life adore me . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 