( 1 ) Oh Rare-show , Oh Pretty-Show : OR , THE CITY FEAST . ON a Day of great Triumph , when Lord of the City , Does Swear to be Honest and Just , as he's Witty ; And Rides thro' the Town , that the Rabble may Shout-him , For the wondered Merits he carries about-him ; B'ing and Honester Man I'll be bold for to say , Than has sat in the Chair this many a day . Like the rest of the Fools , from the Skirts of the Town , I Trotted to Gaze at his Chain and his Gown . With legs in a Kennel , quite up to the middle In dirt , with a Stomach as sharp as a Needle , I stood in the Cold , clinging fast to a Stump , To see the Wisakers march by in their Pomp. At last herd a Consort of Trumpets and Drums , And the Mob crying out , Here he comes , here he comes . I was carr'd by the Crowd , from the place that I stood-in , And the Devil to do there was all of a sudden . The first that appeared was a grear Tom-a-doodle , With a Cap like a Bushel , to cover his Noddle , And a Gown that hung dragling thro' every Puddle ; With a Sword and a Mace , and such Pageantry Pride , And abundance of Formal old Fopry beside . A Troop of grave Elders , Oh then there came by , In their Blood-Coloured Robes , of a very deep die , On Jennets the best that the Town cou'd afford , As Tame all as Lambs , and as Fine as my Lord , With very rich Saddles , gay Bridles and Cruppers , Would ne'er have been made but for such City Troopers . Like Snails o'er a Cabbage , they all crept along , Admir'd by their Wives , and Huzza'd by the Throng . The Companys follow'd , each Man in his Station , Which ev'ry Fool knows is not worth Observation ; All clothed in Furs , in and Ancient Decorum , Like Bears they advanc'd , with their Bagpipes before-'em ; With Streamers and Drums , and abundance of Fooling , Not worth the Repeating , or yet Rediculing : So I'll bid adieu to the Tun-belly'd Sinners , And leave them to Trudg thro' the Dirt to their Dinners . At last I consider'd 'twas very foul pla [ y ] That a Poet should Fast on a Festival Day ; A ( 2 ) I therefore resolv'd it should cost me a fallen , But that I would Drink my Lords Health at a Hall : For why mayn't a Poet ( thought I ) be a Guest , As welcome as Parson , or Fool at a Feast , For the sport of a Tale or the sake of a Jest . I mix'd with the Music , and no one withstood-me , And so Jostl'd forward as cleaver as cou'd be . I pass'd to a very fine Room , thro' a Porch 'Twas as a wide as a Barn , and as high a Church ; Where Clothes upon Shovel-board-Tables were Spread , And all things in order for Dinner were laid ; The Napkins where folded on every Plate , Into Castles and Boats , and the Devil knows what . Their Flaggons and Bowls made a very fine show , And Sweatmeats , like Cuckolds , stood all in a row . They walk'd and they talk'd ; after some Consultation The Beadle stood up , and he made Proclamation , That no one presume , of a Member , till after He's din'd , to bring in his Wife or his Daughter . Then in comes the Pasties , the best of all Food , With big , Goose , and Capon , and all that was good . Then Grace soon was said , without any delay , And as Hungry as Hawks they sat down to their Prey . The Music Struck up such a Bory advancing , As the Polanders Pip'd , when their Cubs were a Dancing . Then each tuck'd his Napkin up under his Chin , That his Holy-Day Band might be kept very clean ; And pin'd up his Sleeves to his Elbows , because They should not hang down , and be greas'd in the Sauce . Then all went to work , with such Rending and Tearing , Like a Kennel of Hounds on a Quarter of Carri'n . When done with the Flesh , then they Claw'd of the Fish , With one hand at Mouth , and the other in th' Dish . When their Stomachs were Cloi'd , what their Bellies denied , Each clap'd in his Pocket to give to his Bride ; With a Cheesecake and Custard for my little Johnny , And a handful of Sweetmeats for poor Daughter Nanny . Then down came a Blade , with a Rattle in 's Skull , To tickle their Ears , when their Bellies were full ; After three or four Hems , to clear up his Voice , At ev'ry Table he made them a Noise , Of Twenty Four Fiddlers were all in a Row , Tho' the Singer meant Cuckolds , I'd have them to know , Then Londons a Gallant Town , and a fine City , 'Tis Govern'd by Scarlet , the more is the Pity . When Claret and Sack had trould freely about , And each Man was Laden , within and without , The Elders arising , all Stagger'd away , And in Sleeping like Hogs , spent the rest of the day . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1698. ( 1 ) Oh Rare-show , Oh Pretty-Show : OR , THE CITY FEAST . ON a Day of great Triumph , when Lord of the City , Does Swear to be Honest and Just , as he's Witty ; And Rides thro' the Town , that the Rabble may Shout-him , For the wondered Merits he carries about-him ; B'ing and Honester Man I'll be bold for to say , Than has sat in the Chair this many a day . Like the rest of the Fools , from the Skirts of the Town , I Trotted to Gaze at his Chain and his Gown . With legs in a Kennel , quite up to the middle In dirt , with a Stomach as sharp as a Needle , I stood in the Cold , clinging fast to a Stump , To see the Wisakers march by in their Pomp. At last herd a Consort of Trumpets and Drums , And the Mob crying out , Here he comes , here he comes . I was carr'd by the Crowd , from the place that I stood-in , And the Devil to do there was all of a sudden . The first that appeared was a grear Tom-a-doodle , With a Cap like a Bushel , to cover his Noddle , And a Gown that hung dragling thro' every Puddle ; With a Sword and a Mace , and such Pageantry Pride , And abundance of Formal old Fopry beside . A Troop of grave Elders , Oh then there came by , In their Blood-Coloured Robes , of a very deep die , On Jennets the best that the Town cou'd afford , As Tame all as Lambs , and as Fine as my Lord , With very rich Saddles , gay Bridles and Cruppers , Would ne'er have been made but for such City Troopers . Like Snails o'er a Cabbage , they all crept along , Admir'd by their Wives , and Huzza'd by the Throng . The Companys follow'd , each Man in his Station , Which ev'ry Fool knows is not worth Observation ; All clothed in Furs , in and Ancient Decorum , Like Bears they advanc'd , with their Bagpipes before-'em ; With Streamers and Drums , and abundance of Fooling , Not worth the Repeating , or yet Rediculing : So I'll bid adieu to the Tun-belly'd Sinners , And leave them to Trudg thro' the Dirt to their Dinners . At last I consider'd 'twas very foul pla [ y ] That a Poet should Fast on a Festival Day ; A ( 2 ) I therefore resolv'd it should cost me a fallen , But that I would Drink my Lords Health at a Hall : For why mayn't a Poet ( thought I ) be a Guest , As welcome as Parson , or Fool at a Feast , For the sport of a Tale or the sake of a Jest . I mix'd with the Music , and no one withstood-me , And so Jostl'd forward as cleaver as cou'd be . I pass'd to a very fine Room , thro' a Porch 'Twas as a wide as a Barn , and as high a Church ; Where Clothes upon Shovel-board-Tables were Spread , And all things in order for Dinner were laid ; The Napkins where folded on every Plate , Into Castles and Boats , and the Devil knows what . Their Flaggons and Bowls made a very fine show , And Sweatmeats , like Cuckolds , stood all in a row . They walk'd and they talk'd ; after some Consultation The Beadle stood up , and he made Proclamation , That no one presume , of a Member , till after He's din'd , to bring in his Wife or his Daughter . Then in comes the Pasties , the best of all Food , With big , Goose , and Capon , and all that was good . Then Grace soon was said , without any delay , And as Hungry as Hawks they sat down to their Prey . The Music Struck up such a Bory advancing , As the Polanders Pip'd , when their Cubs were a Dancing . Then each tuck'd his Napkin up under his Chin , That his Holy-Day Band might be kept very clean ; And pin'd up his Sleeves to his Elbows , because They should not hang down , and be greas'd in the Sauce . Then all went to work , with such Rending and Tearing , Like a Kennel of Hounds on a Quarter of Carri'n . When done with the Flesh , then they Claw'd of the Fish , With one hand at Mouth , and the other in th' Dish . When their Stomachs were Cloi'd , what their Bellies denied , Each clap'd in his Pocket to give to his Bride ; With a Cheesecake and Custard for my little Johnny , And a handful of Sweetmeats for poor Daughter Nanny . Then down came a Blade , with a Rattle in 's Skull , To tickle their Ears , when their Bellies were full ; After three or four Hems , to clear up his Voice , At ev'ry Table he made them a Noise , Of Twenty Four Fiddlers were all in a Row , Tho' the Singer meant Cuckolds , I'd have them to know , Then Londons a Gallant Town , and a fine City , 'Tis Govern'd by Scarlet , the more is the Pity . When Claret and Sack had trould freely about , And each Man was Laden , within and without , The Elders arising , all Stagger'd away , And in Sleeping like Hogs , spent the rest of the day . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1698. 