The ANSWER to the Buxom VIRGIN . OR , The Farmer well-fitted , for slighting his first Love Honest Joan. When Men can be so false as he , And Waver with the Wind , I do protest , I do not jest , They're fitted in their kind . To the Tune of , The Countrey-Farmer , Or , The Buxom Virgin . THe Country Farmer is now undone , He knoweth not whither to go or run , Now into a snare he is thus betray'd , By marrying with Gillian the buxom maid : As true as we are in this place , Within the term of two months space , She made him a sorrowful sour face , That Neddy was in almost woeful case . And just in the middle of all the night , She put him into a most fearful fright , Her pitiful groans and sorrowful cries , Compell'd the Farmer at length to rise : Then slipping on his shoes and hose , But carelessly putting on his clothes , Down Stairs in a hurry away he goes , And called her mother , then straight she arose . O what is the matter my son said she , You call in a hurry so hastily , Nay marry quoth Ned , I do not know Your daughter hath fill'd my heart with woe , With woeful groans and dismal cries , My senses all she did surprise , So that at the length I was forc'd to rise , But what is the matter I cannot devise . When she had consider'd of what he said , She posted away and no time delay'd , The Old woman was in a woeful touze , And trotting away to her Daughters house , But coming there , she knew full well , As I to you the truth may tell , That Gillian had been too oft at the Mill , And that was the cause of her fallingill . Those Millers , quoth she , are such pomperd blades Thus doing , they ruin poor harmless maids , I think there is hardly one in ten , That can be reputed right honest men : There is Robin , Ralph , and lusty Will , All brawny Blades of wanton skill That never maid can go to the Mill , But they will be killing and courting still . But why should we tattle and [ worser ] talk of this , She is not the first that hath done amiss , Go fetch the Midwife and call the Nurse , Come come my dear Son it is well it's no worse : The Farmer he Saddled bonny Rone , And Rid full speed five miles alone , Then sighing and sobbing , and making moan . He wished he had never forsaken Joan. But after the trouble was o're and past , A Chopping brave Boy she enjoy'd at last , But Neddy at this his stomach it riss , To Father the Brat that was none of his : Said they the Calf must with the Cow , Both Law and reason does allow , Therefore my dear son be contented now , In time he may come to drive the Blow . This being consider'd , he soon was kind , Though he at the first was disturb'd in mind , Then putting and end to the whole dispute , He gave his sweet Gillian a kind salute : To Father it he will not fail , Oh now appears a pleasant gale , When they with the Farmer did thus prevail , They drank up full brimmers of Nappy Ale . The Women and he they were all agree'd , To christian the bantling now with speed , Then straight for the business they prepare , The Names of the Gossips I will declare , The one was Edwards Cozen Phill , The other jolly bouncing Nell , And Roger the Miller of Holeton-Dell , So this being over , then all was well . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur - Street . '''' The ANSWER to the Buxom VIRGIN . OR , The Farmer well-fitted , for slighting his first Love Honest Joan. When Men can be so false as he , And Waver with the Wind , I do protest , I do not jest , They're fitted in their kind . To the Tune of , The Countrey-Farmer , Or , The Buxom Virgin . THe Country Farmer is now undone , He knoweth not whither to go or run , Now into a snare he is thus betray'd , By marrying with Gillian the buxom maid : As true as we are in this place , Within the term of two months space , She made him a sorrowful sour face , That Neddy was in almost woeful case . And just in the middle of all the night , She put him into a most fearful fright , Her pitiful groans and sorrowful cries , Compell'd the Farmer at length to rise : Then slipping on his shoes and hose , But carelessly putting on his clothes , Down Stairs in a hurry away he goes , And called her mother , then straight she arose . O what is the matter my son said she , You call in a hurry so hastily , Nay marry quoth Ned , I do not know Your daughter hath fill'd my heart with woe , With woeful groans and dismal cries , My senses all she did surprise , So that at the length I was forc'd to rise , But what is the matter I cannot devise . When she had consider'd of what he said , She posted away and no time delay'd , The Old woman was in a woeful touze , And trotting away to her Daughters house , But coming there , she knew full well , As I to you the truth may tell , That Gillian had been too oft at the Mill , And that was the cause of her fallingill . Those Millers , quoth she , are such pomperd blades Thus doing , they ruin poor harmless maids , I think there is hardly one in ten , That can be reputed right honest men : There is Robin , Ralph , and lusty Will , All brawny Blades of wanton skill That never maid can go to the Mill , But they will be killing and courting still . But why should we tattle and [ worser ] talk of this , She is not the first that hath done amiss , Go fetch the Midwife and call the Nurse , Come come my dear Son it is well it's no worse : The Farmer he Saddled bonny Rone , And Rid full speed five miles alone , Then sighing and sobbing , and making moan . He wished he had never forsaken Joan. But after the trouble was o're and past , A Chopping brave Boy she enjoy'd at last , But Neddy at this his stomach it riss , To Father the Brat that was none of his : Said they the Calf must with the Cow , Both Law and reason does allow , Therefore my dear son be contented now , In time he may come to drive the Blow . This being consider'd , he soon was kind , Though he at the first was disturb'd in mind , Then putting and end to the whole dispute , He gave his sweet Gillian a kind salute : To Father it he will not fail , Oh now appears a pleasant gale , When they with the Farmer did thus prevail , They drank up full brimmers of Nappy Ale . The Women and he they were all agree'd , To christian the bantling now with speed , Then straight for the business they prepare , The Names of the Gossips I will declare , The one was Edwards Cozen Phill , The other jolly bouncing Nell , And Roger the Miller of Holeton-Dell , So this being over , then all was well . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur - Street . '''' The ANSWER to the Buxom VIRGIN . OR , The Farmer well-fitted , for slighting his first Love Honest Joan. When Men can be so false as he , And Waver with the Wind , I do protest , I do not jest , They're fitted in their kind . To the Tune of , The Countrey-Farmer , Or , The Buxom Virgin . THe Country Farmer is now undone , He knoweth not whither to go or run , Now into a snare he is thus betray'd , By marrying with Gillian the buxom maid : As true as we are in this place , Within the term of two months space , She made him a sorrowful sour face , That Neddy was in almost woeful case . And just in the middle of all the night , She put him into a most fearful fright , Her pitiful groans and sorrowful cries , Compell'd the Farmer at length to rise : Then slipping on his shoes and hose , But carelessly putting on his clothes , Down Stairs in a hurry away he goes , And called her mother , then straight she arose . O what is the matter my son said she , You call in a hurry so hastily , Nay marry quoth Ned , I do not know Your daughter hath fill'd my heart with woe , With woeful groans and dismal cries , My senses all she did surprise , So that at the length I was forc'd to rise , But what is the matter I cannot devise . When she had consider'd of what he said , She posted away and no time delay'd , The Old woman was in a woeful touze , And trotting away to her Daughters house , But coming there , she knew full well , As I to you the truth may tell , That Gillian had been too oft at the Mill , And that was the cause of her fallingill . Those Millers , quoth she , are such pomperd blades Thus doing , they ruin poor harmless maids , I think there is hardly one in ten , That can be reputed right honest men : There is Robin , Ralph , and lusty Will , All brawny Blades of wanton skill That never maid can go to the Mill , But they will be killing and courting still . But why should we tattle and [ worser ] talk of this , She is not the first that hath done amiss , Go fetch the Midwife and call the Nurse , Come come my dear Son it is well it's no worse : The Farmer he Saddled bonny Rone , And Rid full speed five miles alone , Then sighing and sobbing , and making moan . He wished he had never forsaken Joan. But after the trouble was o're and past , A Chopping brave Boy she enjoy'd at last , But Neddy at this his stomach it riss , To Father the Brat that was none of his : Said they the Calf must with the Cow , Both Law and reason does allow , Therefore my dear son be contented now , In time he may come to drive the Blow . This being consider'd , he soon was kind , Though he at the first was disturb'd in mind , Then putting and end to the whole dispute , He gave his sweet Gillian a kind salute : To Father it he will not fail , Oh now appears a pleasant gale , When they with the Farmer did thus prevail , They drank up full brimmers of Nappy Ale . The Women and he they were all agree'd , To christian the bantling now with speed , Then straight for the business they prepare , The Names of the Gossips I will declare , The one was Edwards Cozen Phill , The other jolly bouncing Nell , And Roger the Miller of Holeton-Dell , So this being over , then all was well . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur - Street . '''' The ANSWER to the Buxom VIRGIN . OR , The Farmer well-fitted , for slighting his first Love Honest Joan. When Men can be so false as he , And Waver with the Wind , I do protest , I do not jest , They're fitted in their kind . To the Tune of , The Countrey-Farmer , Or , The Buxom Virgin . THe Country Farmer is now undone , He knoweth not whither to go or run , Now into a snare he is thus betray'd , By marrying with Gillian the buxom maid : As true as we are in this place , Within the term of two months space , She made him a sorrowful sour face , That Neddy was in almost woeful case . And just in the middle of all the night , She put him into a most fearful fright , Her pitiful groans and sorrowful cries , Compell'd the Farmer at length to rise : Then slipping on his shoes and hose , But carelessly putting on his clothes , Down Stairs in a hurry away he goes , And called her mother , then straight she arose . O what is the matter my son said she , You call in a hurry so hastily , Nay marry quoth Ned , I do not know Your daughter hath fill'd my heart with woe , With woeful groans and dismal cries , My senses all she did surprise , So that at the length I was forc'd to rise , But what is the matter I cannot devise . When she had consider'd of what he said , She posted away and no time delay'd , The Old woman was in a woeful touze , And trotting away to her Daughters house , But coming there , she knew full well , As I to you the truth may tell , That Gillian had been too oft at the Mill , And that was the cause of her fallingill . Those Millers , quoth she , are such pomperd blades Thus doing , they ruin poor harmless maids , I think there is hardly one in ten , That can be reputed right honest men : There is Robin , Ralph , and lusty Will , All brawny Blades of wanton skill That never maid can go to the Mill , But they will be killing and courting still . But why should we tattle and [ worser ] talk of this , She is not the first that hath done amiss , Go fetch the Midwife and call the Nurse , Come come my dear Son it is well it's no worse : The Farmer he Saddled bonny Rone , And Rid full speed five miles alone , Then sighing and sobbing , and making moan . He wished he had never forsaken Joan. But after the trouble was o're and past , A Chopping brave Boy she enjoy'd at last , But Neddy at this his stomach it riss , To Father the Brat that was none of his : Said they the Calf must with the Cow , Both Law and reason does allow , Therefore my dear son be contented now , In time he may come to drive the Blow . This being consider'd , he soon was kind , Though he at the first was disturb'd in mind , Then putting and end to the whole dispute , He gave his sweet Gillian a kind salute : To Father it he will not fail , Oh now appears a pleasant gale , When they with the Farmer did thus prevail , They drank up full brimmers of Nappy Ale . The Women and he they were all agree'd , To christian the bantling now with speed , Then straight for the business they prepare , The Names of the Gossips I will declare , The one was Edwards Cozen Phill , The other jolly bouncing Nell , And Roger the Miller of Holeton-Dell , So this being over , then all was well . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur - Street . '''' 