Dr WILD's Humble Thanks For His MAJESTIES Gracious DECLARATION for Liberty of Conscience , March 15. 1672. No , not one word , can I of this Great Deed , In Merlin or old Mother Shipton read ! Old Tyburn take those Tychobrahe Imps , As Silger , who would be accounted Pimps To the Amorous Planets , they thee minute know When Jove did Cuckold old Amphitryo . Ken Mars , and made Venus wink and glances , Their close Conjunctions , and midnight Dances ; When costive Saturn goes to stool , and vile Thief Mercury does pick his Fob the while ; When Lady Luna leaks , and makes her man Throwed out of Window into the Ocean . More subtle than the Excise-men here below , What's spent in every Sign in Heaven they know . Cunning Intelligencers ! they'll not miss To tell us next year the success of this ; They correspond with Dutch and English Star , As one once did with CHARLES and Oliver . The Bankers also might have , had they gone , What Planet governed the Exchequer , known . Old Lily though he did not love to make Any words oned , saw the English take Five of the Smyrna Fleet , and if the Sign Had been Aquarius , they made them Nine . When Sagitarius took his aim to shoot At Bishop Cousin , he spied him no doubt ; And with such force the winged-Arrow flew , Instead of one Church-Stag he killed two ; Glocester and Durham when he espied , Let Lean and Fat go together he cried . Well Will Lille , thou knewest all this as well As I , and yet wouldst not their Lordship's tell . I know thy Plea too , and must it allow , PRELATES should know as much of Heaven as thou : But now Friend William , since its done and passed , Pray thee , give us Fanatics but one Cast , What thou foresawest of March the Fifteenth Last ; When swift and sudden as the Angels fly , The Declaration for Conscience Liberty ; When things of Heaven burst from the Royal Breast , More fragrant than the Spices of the East . I know in next years Almanac thou'lt write , Thou sawest the King and Council overnight , Before that morn , all fit in Heaven as plain To be discerned , as if 'twere Charles's Wain , Great B , great L , and two great AA's were chief , Under Great CHARLES to give poor Fan's relief : Thou sawest Lord Arlington ordain the man To be the first Lay-Metropolitan . Thou saw'st him give induction to a Spittle , And constitute our Brother TOM-DOE-LITTLE . In the Beors Paw , and Bulls right Eye , Some Detriment to Priests thou did espy ; And though by Sol in Libra thou didst know Which way the Scale of Policy would go ; Yet Mercury in Aries did decree , That Wool and Lamb should still Conformists be . But hark-you Will , Steer-poaching is not fair ; Had you among the Steers found this March-Hare , Bred of that lusty Puss the Good Old Cause , Religion rescued from Informing Laws ; You should have yelpt aloud , hanging's the end , By Huntsmens Rule , of Hounds that will not spend . Be gone thou and thy canting-Tribe , be gone ; Go tell thy destiny to followers none : Kings Hearts and Councils are too deep for thee , And for thy Stars and Doemons scrutiny , King CHARLES Return was much above thy skill To fumble out , as 'twas against thy will . From him who can the Hearts of Kings inspire , Not from the Planets , came that Sacred Fire Of Sovereign Love , which broke into a Flame ; From God and from his King alone it came . To the KING . SO great , so universal , and so free ! This was too much great CHARLES , except for Thee , For any King to give a Subject hope ; To do thus like Thee , would undo the Pope ; Yea , though his Vassals should their wealth combine To buy Indulgence half so large as thine : No , if they should not only kiss his Toe , But Clement's Podex , he'd not let them go . Whil'st Thou to 's shame , Thy immortal glory , Hast freed All-Souls from real Purgatory , And given All-Saints in Heav'n new Joys , to see Their friends in England keep a Jubilee . Suspect them not , Great Sir , nor think the worse ; For sudden Joys like grief confound at first . The splendour of your favour was so bright , That yet it dazzles and o'rewhelms our sighed . Drunk with her cups , my Muse did nothing mind , And until now her feet she could not find . Greediness makes Profa'ness in th' first place , Hungry men fill their bellies , then say grace . We wou'd make Bonfires , but that we do fear The name of Incend'ary we may hear : We wou'd have Music too , but 'twill not do , For all the Fiddlers are Conformists too . Nor can we ring , the angry Churchman swears , By the King's leave the Bells' and Ropes are theirs : And let 'em take 'em , for our Tongues shall sing Your Honour louder than their Clappers ring . Nay , if they will not at this Grace repine , We'l dress the Vineyard , they shall drink the Wine . Their Church shall be the Mother , ours the Nurse . Peter shall preach , Judas shall bear the Purse . No Bishops , Parsons , Vicars , Curates , we But only Ministers desire to be . We'l preach in Sackcloth , they shall read in Silk . We'l feed the Flock , and let them take the Milk . Let but the Black birds sing in bushes cold , And may the Jackdaws still the Steeples hold . We'l be the Feet , the Back , and Hands , and they Shall be the Belly , and devour the Prey , The Tythe-pigg shall be theirs , we'l turn the spit , We'l bear the Cross , they only sign with it . But if the Patriarchs shall envy show , To see their younger-Brother Joseph go In Coat of diverse colours , and shall fallen To rend it , 'cause it's not Canonical : Then may they find him turn a Dreamer too , And live themselves to see his Dream come true . May rather they and we together join In all what each can ; But they have the Coin , With Prayers and Tears such service much avail : With Tears to swell your Seas , with Prayers your Sails ; And with Men too from both our parties ; such I'm sure we have , can cheat , or beatrice , the Dutch . A Thousand Quakers , Sir , our side can spare ; Nay , two or three , for they great Breeders are . The Church can match us too with Jovial Sirs , Informers , Singing-men and Paraters . Let the King try , set these upon the Decks Together , they will Dutch or Devil vex . Their Breath will mischief further than a Gun. And if you loose them , you'l not be undone . Pardon , dread Sir , nay pardon this coarse Paper , Your License 'twas made this poor Poet caper . ITER BOREALE . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1672. Dr WILD's Humble Thanks For His MAJESTIES Gracious DECLARATION for Liberty of Conscience , March 15. 1672. No , not one word , can I of this Great Deed , In Merlin or old Mother Shipton read ! Old Tyburn take those Tychobrahe Imps , As Silger , who would be accounted Pimps To the Amorous Planets , they thee minute know When Jove did Cuckold old Amphitryo . Ken Mars , and made Venus wink and glances , Their close Conjunctions , and midnight Dances ; When costive Saturn goes to stool , and vile Thief Mercury does pick his Fob the while ; When Lady Luna leaks , and makes her man Throwed out of Window into the Ocean . More subtle than the Excise-men here below , What's spent in every Sign in Heaven they know . Cunning Intelligencers ! they'll not miss To tell us next year the success of this ; They correspond with Dutch and English Star , As one once did with CHARLES and Oliver . The Bankers also might have , had they gone , What Planet governed the Exchequer , known . Old Lily though he did not love to make Any words oned , saw the English take Five of the Smyrna Fleet , and if the Sign Had been Aquarius , they made them Nine . When Sagitarius took his aim to shoot At Bishop Cousin , he spied him no doubt ; And with such force the winged-Arrow flew , Instead of one Church-Stag he killed two ; Glocester and Durham when he espied , Let Lean and Fat go together he cried . Well Will Lille , thou knewest all this as well As I , and yet wouldst not their Lordship's tell . I know thy Plea too , and must it allow , PRELATES should know as much of Heaven as thou : But now Friend William , since its done and passed , Pray thee , give us Fanatics but one Cast , What thou foresawest of March the Fifteenth Last ; When swift and sudden as the Angels fly , The Declaration for Conscience Liberty ; When things of Heaven burst from the Royal Breast , More fragrant than the Spices of the East . I know in next years Almanac thou'lt write , Thou sawest the King and Council overnight , Before that morn , all fit in Heaven as plain To be discerned , as if 'twere Charles's Wain , Great B , great L , and two great AA's were chief , Under Great CHARLES to give poor Fan's relief : Thou sawest Lord Arlington ordain the man To be the first Lay-Metropolitan . Thou saw'st him give induction to a Spittle , And constitute our Brother TOM-DOE-LITTLE . In the Beors Paw , and Bulls right Eye , Some Detriment to Priests thou did espy ; And though by Sol in Libra thou didst know Which way the Scale of Policy would go ; Yet Mercury in Aries did decree , That Wool and Lamb should still Conformists be . But hark-you Will , Steer-poaching is not fair ; Had you among the Steers found this March-Hare , Bred of that lusty Puss the Good Old Cause , Religion rescued from Informing Laws ; You should have yelpt aloud , hanging's the end , By Huntsmens Rule , of Hounds that will not spend . Be gone thou and thy canting-Tribe , be gone ; Go tell thy destiny to followers none : Kings Hearts and Councils are too deep for thee , And for thy Stars and Doemons scrutiny , King CHARLES Return was much above thy skill To fumble out , as 'twas against thy will . From him who can the Hearts of Kings inspire , Not from the Planets , came that Sacred Fire Of Sovereign Love , which broke into a Flame ; From God and from his King alone it came . To the KING . SO great , so universal , and so free ! This was too much great CHARLES , except for Thee , For any King to give a Subject hope ; To do thus like Thee , would undo the Pope ; Yea , though his Vassals should their wealth combine To buy Indulgence half so large as thine : No , if they should not only kiss his Toe , But Clement's Podex , he'd not let them go . Whil'st Thou to 's shame , Thy immortal glory , Hast freed All-Souls from real Purgatory , And given All-Saints in Heav'n new Joys , to see Their friends in England keep a Jubilee . Suspect them not , Great Sir , nor think the worse ; For sudden Joys like grief confound at first . The splendour of your favour was so bright , That yet it dazzles and o'rewhelms our sighed . Drunk with her cups , my Muse did nothing mind , And until now her feet she could not find . Greediness makes Profa'ness in th' first place , Hungry men fill their bellies , then say grace . We wou'd make Bonfires , but that we do fear The name of Incend'ary we may hear : We wou'd have Music too , but 'twill not do , For all the Fiddlers are Conformists too . Nor can we ring , the angry Churchman swears , By the King's leave the Bells' and Ropes are theirs : And let 'em take 'em , for our Tongues shall sing Your Honour louder than their Clappers ring . Nay , if they will not at this Grace repine , We'l dress the Vineyard , they shall drink the Wine . Their Church shall be the Mother , ours the Nurse . Peter shall preach , Judas shall bear the Purse . No Bishops , Parsons , Vicars , Curates , we But only Ministers desire to be . We'l preach in Sackcloth , they shall read in Silk . We'l feed the Flock , and let them take the Milk . Let but the Black birds sing in bushes cold , And may the Jackdaws still the Steeples hold . We'l be the Feet , the Back , and Hands , and they Shall be the Belly , and devour the Prey , The Tythe-pigg shall be theirs , we'l turn the spit , We'l bear the Cross , they only sign with it . But if the Patriarchs shall envy show , To see their younger-Brother Joseph go In Coat of diverse colours , and shall fallen To rend it , 'cause it's not Canonical : Then may they find him turn a Dreamer too , And live themselves to see his Dream come true . May rather they and we together join In all what each can ; But they have the Coin , With Prayers and Tears such service much avail : With Tears to swell your Seas , with Prayers your Sails ; And with Men too from both our parties ; such I'm sure we have , can cheat , or beatrice , the Dutch . A Thousand Quakers , Sir , our side can spare ; Nay , two or three , for they great Breeders are . The Church can match us too with Jovial Sirs , Informers , Singing-men and Paraters . Let the King try , set these upon the Decks Together , they will Dutch or Devil vex . Their Breath will mischief further than a Gun. And if you loose them , you'l not be undone . Pardon , dread Sir , nay pardon this coarse Paper , Your License 'twas made this poor Poet caper . ITER BOREALE . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1672. 