A New delightful Ballad , Called , Debauchery Scared ; OR , THE Beggar-wnch turned into a Devil : Together with the Policy of Bumpkin ; Giving a peasant Account of Comical Passages between a Country Gentle man , and a London Beggar-wench . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. A Country Gentleman came up to Town , to taste the delights of the City , Who had to his Servant a jocular Clown , accounted to be very witty : His master one night god drunk as a Rat , and swore he would turn him away Sir , Lest he would get him a bit for his Cat , and into his Chamber convey her . Some jolly Dame he was willing to have ; and gave to his Bumpkin a Guiney , Who had the wit not to give it , but save the far better part of the money ; To find out a Punk , he walked in the street , and backwards and forward kept trudging ; At last a young beggar wench he did meet , who was in great want of a Lodging : Sweetheart ( said he ) if thou'lt give thy consent to go home , and lie with my master , I'le give thee half a Crown for thy content , and save thee from any disaster : It being late , she fearing the watch , Beside it was very cold weather ; So that they quickly both made up the match , and trudg'd to his master together . Bumpkin was arch , as he homeward did come he gave her a bout by the way sir ; Then to his master he carried her home , who in a dark Chamber lay sir : He bid her be sure let his master not know , by any means she was a mumper , But bid her to rise before daylight , and go , or Ad-swounds he would heartily thump her . Bumpkin his Trull to the Chamber he led , and then to his Bed took his way sir , She quickly undrest , and gropt into the Bed , and close to the Gentleman lay sir , C'''4 Eager of Joy , he gave her a Kiss , and hug'd her with flaming desire : The Gentleman swore that she smell'd so of Cheese he could not endure to lie by her . He bid her get up to a place in the room , where a Bottle stood of Rosewater , And wash her Face to take away the fume , then come into Bed again after ; A Bottle of Ink there happen'd to stand , and for the Rosewater she took it , Pouring a spoonful out into her hand , and over her face she did stroke it . Then to their Joys they eagerly fell , till at last it began to be Light sir , Then looking he thought her the Devil of Hell , and ran out of Bed in a fright sir ; Crying , the Devil , the Devil was there , she being affrighted ran after , In a tatter'd old smock , crying where is he where which put all the street in a laughter . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-Gate in West-Smithfield . A New delightful Ballad , Called , Debauchery Scared ; OR , THE Beggar-wnch turned into a Devil : Together with the Policy of Bumpkin ; Giving a peasant Account of Comical Passages between a Country Gentle man , and a London Beggar-wench . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. A Country Gentleman came up to Town , to taste the delights of the City , Who had to his Servant a jocular Clown , accounted to be very witty : His master one night god drunk as a Rat , and swore he would turn him away Sir , Lest he would get him a bit for his Cat , and into his Chamber convey her . Some jolly Dame he was willing to have ; and gave to his Bumpkin a Guiney , Who had the wit not to give it , but save the far better part of the money ; To find out a Punk , he walked in the street , and backwards and forward kept trudging ; At last a young beggar wench he did meet , who was in great want of a Lodging : Sweetheart ( said he ) if thou'lt give thy consent to go home , and lie with my master , I'le give thee half a Crown for thy content , and save thee from any disaster : It being late , she fearing the watch , Beside it was very cold weather ; So that they quickly both made up the match , and trudg'd to his master together . Bumpkin was arch , as he homeward did come he gave her a bout by the way sir ; Then to his master he carried her home , who in a dark Chamber lay sir : He bid her be sure let his master not know , by any means she was a mumper , But bid her to rise before daylight , and go , or Ad-swounds he would heartily thump her . Bumpkin his Trull to the Chamber he led , and then to his Bed took his way sir , She quickly undrest , and gropt into the Bed , and close to the Gentleman lay sir , C'''4 Eager of Joy , he gave her a Kiss , and hug'd her with flaming desire : The Gentleman swore that she smell'd so of Cheese he could not endure to lie by her . He bid her get up to a place in the room , where a Bottle stood of Rosewater , And wash her Face to take away the fume , then come into Bed again after ; A Bottle of Ink there happen'd to stand , and for the Rosewater she took it , Pouring a spoonful out into her hand , and over her face she did stroke it . Then to their Joys they eagerly fell , till at last it began to be Light sir , Then looking he thought her the Devil of Hell , and ran out of Bed in a fright sir ; Crying , the Devil , the Devil was there , she being affrighted ran after , In a tatter'd old smock , crying where is he where which put all the street in a laughter . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-Gate in West-Smithfield . 