The BEGGERS Delight , As it was SUNG at the THEATRE-ROYAL . To a pleasant New Tune : COurtiers , Courtiers , think it no harm that silly poor Swains in Love should be , For Love lies hid in Rags all torn , as well as in Silks and Bravery : For the Beggar he loves his Lass as dear , as he that has thousands , thousands , thousands , He that has thousand pounds a year . State and Title are pitiful things , a lower state more happy does prove , Lords and Ladies , Princes and Kings , with the Beggar hath equal joys in Love ; And my pretty brown Cloris upon the Hay , hath always as killing , killing , killing , Hath always as killing Charms as they . A Lord will purchase a Maidenhead , which perhaps hath been lost some years before , A beggar will pawn his Cloak and his Trade , content with Love , to lie and live poor : Ou eager embraces in Coal-Sheds , are always more pleasing , pleasing , pleasing , Then theirs that are dull in Downy beds . Our loris is free from Patches and Paint , complexion and Features sweetly agree , Perfections which Ladies often do want , is always intail'd on our Pedigree : Sweet Cloris in her own careless Hair , is always more taking , taking , taking , Then Ladies that Towers and Pendents do wear . A Duchess may fail , created for sport , by using of Art , and changing of things , Tho' she were the Idol and Goddess o'th Court , the joys and the pleasure of DONE , Prince , or Kings : Yet Cloris in her Old Russet Gown , she's found , she's found , she's found , And free from the Plague and Pox of the Town . A Begger's as boon and brisk in the dark , as she that is painted read and white , And pleases her mate , tho' not such a spark , as lies by the side of a Lord or Knigh And Cloris hath beauty to content , so long as she's wholesome , wholesome , wholesome , She pleases us we don't repent . What tho' all the day she's attir'd in Rags , yet once a week she changes her smock , And she that has Gold and Silver in Bags , she can do no more than match a good Cock : She's willing and ready to show her Art , and still with her kisses , kisses , kisses , She'l conquer the senses and the heart . All the night long we do hug and embrace , the greatest and Rich can do no more , And when to the Swain she joins her face , he thinketh what joys there's for him in store : By the taste of the blisses so happy's he , he cry's there's no beggar , beggar , beggar , Could so blessed or so fortunate be . The touch of her hand increases his flame , who conquer'd by charms a Captive does lie , And when he but thinks of his true loves name , he vows for her sake he could freely die : Then she revives him again with a kiss , he cries you undo me , undo me , undo me , Had ever poor soul such pleasure as this ? Then gallants ne're envy the poors delight , 'tis pleasure to Love , and a plague to be free , Tho' some for our Poverty do us slight , there's none alive more happy then we : We well are content with what we enjoy , & once in a twelvemonth , twelvemonth , twelvemonth , We are blessed with a Girl , or a boy . Content is the thing we strive to possess , and better it is then a golden Mine , Since us with the same the Heavens do bless , what cause have we for to repine : No we've enough our hearts to suffice , and he that does murmur , murmur , murmur , Will never be happy , nor wise . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . The BEGGERS Delight , As it was SUNG at the THEATRE-ROYAL . To a pleasant New Tune : COurtiers , Courtiers , think it no harm that silly poor Swains in Love should be , For Love lies hid in Rags all torn , as well as in Silks and Bravery : For the Beggar he loves his Lass as dear , as he that has thousands , thousands , thousands , He that has thousand pounds a year . State and Title are pitiful things , a lower state more happy does prove , Lords and Ladies , Princes and Kings , with the Beggar hath equal joys in Love ; And my pretty brown Cloris upon the Hay , hath always as killing , killing , killing , Hath always as killing Charms as they . A Lord will purchase a Maidenhead , which perhaps hath been lost some years before , A beggar will pawn his Cloak and his Trade , content with Love , to lie and live poor : Ou eager embraces in Coal-Sheds , are always more pleasing , pleasing , pleasing , Then theirs that are dull in Downy beds . Our loris is free from Patches and Paint , complexion and Features sweetly agree , Perfections which Ladies often do want , is always intail'd on our Pedigree : Sweet Cloris in her own careless Hair , is always more taking , taking , taking , Then Ladies that Towers and Pendents do wear . A Duchess may fail , created for sport , by using of Art , and changing of things , Tho' she were the Idol and Goddess o'th Court , the joys and the pleasure of DONE , Prince , or Kings : Yet Cloris in her Old Russet Gown , she's found , she's found , she's found , And free from the Plague and Pox of the Town . A Begger's as boon and brisk in the dark , as she that is painted read and white , And pleases her mate , tho' not such a spark , as lies by the side of a Lord or Knigh And Cloris hath beauty to content , so long as she's wholesome , wholesome , wholesome , She pleases us we don't repent . What tho' all the day she's attir'd in Rags , yet once a week she changes her smock , And she that has Gold and Silver in Bags , she can do no more than match a good Cock : She's willing and ready to show her Art , and still with her kisses , kisses , kisses , She'l conquer the senses and the heart . All the night long we do hug and embrace , the greatest and Rich can do no more , And when to the Swain she joins her face , he thinketh what joys there's for him in store : By the taste of the blisses so happy's he , he cry's there's no beggar , beggar , beggar , Could so blessed or so fortunate be . The touch of her hand increases his flame , who conquer'd by charms a Captive does lie , And when he but thinks of his true loves name , he vows for her sake he could freely die : Then she revives him again with a kiss , he cries you undo me , undo me , undo me , Had ever poor soul such pleasure as this ? Then gallants ne're envy the poors delight , 'tis pleasure to Love , and a plague to be free , Tho' some for our Poverty do us slight , there's none alive more happy then we : We well are content with what we enjoy , & once in a twelvemonth , twelvemonth , twelvemonth , We are blessed with a Girl , or a boy . Content is the thing we strive to possess , and better it is then a golden Mine , Since us with the same the Heavens do bless , what cause have we for to repine : No we've enough our hearts to suffice , and he that does murmur , murmur , murmur , Will never be happy , nor wise . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 