The Lamentation of John Musgrave , Who was Executed at Kendal , for Robbing the King's Receiver , and taking away from him great store of Treasure . To the Tune of , Wharton . TO lodge it was my chance of late , at Kendal in the Sizes week , Where I saw many a gallant state was walking up and down the street , Down plumpton park as I did pass , I herd a Bird sing in a glen : The chiefest of her Song it was , farewell the flower of Servingmen . Sometime I herd the the Music sweet , which was delightful unto me : At length I herd one wail and weep , a gallant youth condemned to die : Down Plumpton park , etc A Gentleman of courage bold , his like I never saw before , But when as I did him behold , my grief it grew still more and more : Down Plumpton Park , etc Of watery eyes there were great store , for all did weep that did him see , He made the heart of many soar , and I lamented for company : Down Plumpton park , etc To God above ( quoth he ) I call , that sent his son to suffer death : For to receive my sinful soul , so soon as I shall lose my breath , Down Plumpton park , etc O God I have deserved death , for deeds that I have done to thee : Yet never liv'd I like a thief , till I met with ill company . Down Plumpton park , etc For I may curse the dismal hour , first time that I did give consen For to Rob the King's Receiver and to take away his Ren Down Plumpton park , etc You Gallants all be warn'd by me , learn Cards and Dice for to refrain , Fly whores , eschew ill company , for these 3 thing will breed you pain : Down Plumpton park , etc All earthly treasures are but vain and worldly wealth is vanity : Search nothing else but heaven to gain remember all that we must die : Down Plumton park , etc Farewell good fellows less and more , be not dismayed at this my fallen : I never did offend before , John Musgrave , all men did me call : Down Plumton park as I did pass , I herd a bird sing in a glen , etc The second part of the Lamentation of John Musgrave . To the same Tune . THe bait beguiles the bonny Fish , some care not what they swear or say The Lamb becomes the Foxes dish when as the old sheep runs away : Down Plumpton park as I did pass , I herd a bird sing in a glen , The chiefest of her song it was , fare well the flower of Servingmen . The Fowlers that the Plovers get , take glistering glass their net to see The Ferret when the mouth is cop , tO . does drive the Coney to the Ne Down Plumton park , etc The Pike devours the Salmon free , which is a better Fish than himself : Some care not how whose children cry , so that themselves may keep their pelf : Down Plumpton park , etc Farewell good people less and more , both great and small that did me ken : Farewell rich , and farewell poor , and farewell all good Servingmen ; Down Plumpton park , etc Now by my death I wish all know , that this same lesson you may teach , Of what degree , of high , or low , climb not I say above your reach : Down Plumpton park , etc Good Gentlemen I you entreat , that have more sons than you have lands , In idleness do not them keep , teach them to labour with their hands : Down Plumpton park ; etc For idleness is the root of evil , and this since never goes alone : But Theft and Robbery follows after , as by my self is plainly shown : Down plumpton park , etc For Youth & Age , will not understand , that friends in want , they be but cold , If they spend their portions and lack land they may go beg when they are old : Down Plumpton park , etc Farewell , farewell my brethren dear , sweet Sisters make no doal for me : My death's at hand I do not fear , we are all mortal and born to die : Down Plumpton park , etc I know that Christ did die for me , no earthly pleasures would I have : I care not for the world a fly , but mercy Lord of thee I crave . Down Plumpton park , etc Come man of death and do me right , my glass is run I cannot stay : With Christ I hope to lodge this night and all good people for me pray : Down Plumpton park , etc The man of death his part did play , which made the tears blind many and eye He is with Christ , as I dare say , the Lord grant us that so we may : Down Plumpton park , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Lamentation of John Musgrave , Who was Executed at Kendal , for Robbing the King's Receiver , and taking away from him great store of Treasure . To the Tune of , Wharton . TO lodge it was my chance of late , at Kendal in the Sizes week , Where I saw many a gallant state was walking up and down the street , Down plumpton park as I did pass , I herd a Bird sing in a glen : The chiefest of her Song it was , farewell the flower of Servingmen . Sometime I herd the the Music sweet , which was delightful unto me : At length I herd one wail and weep , a gallant youth condemned to die : Down Plumpton park , etc A Gentleman of courage bold , his like I never saw before , But when as I did him behold , my grief it grew still more and more : Down Plumpton Park , etc Of watery eyes there were great store , for all did weep that did him see , He made the heart of many soar , and I lamented for company : Down Plumpton park , etc To God above ( quoth he ) I call , that sent his son to suffer death : For to receive my sinful soul , so soon as I shall lose my breath , Down Plumpton park , etc O God I have deserved death , for deeds that I have done to thee : Yet never liv'd I like a thief , till I met with ill company . Down Plumpton park , etc For I may curse the dismal hour , first time that I did give consen For to Rob the King's Receiver and to take away his Ren Down Plumpton park , etc You Gallants all be warn'd by me , learn Cards and Dice for to refrain , Fly whores , eschew ill company , for these 3 thing will breed you pain : Down Plumpton park , etc All earthly treasures are but vain and worldly wealth is vanity : Search nothing else but heaven to gain remember all that we must die : Down Plumton park , etc Farewell good fellows less and more , be not dismayed at this my fallen : I never did offend before , John Musgrave , all men did me call : Down Plumton park as I did pass , I herd a bird sing in a glen , etc The second part of the Lamentation of John Musgrave . To the same Tune . THe bait beguiles the bonny Fish , some care not what they swear or say The Lamb becomes the Foxes dish when as the old sheep runs away : Down Plumpton park as I did pass , I herd a bird sing in a glen , The chiefest of her song it was , fare well the flower of Servingmen . The Fowlers that the Plovers get , take glistering glass their net to see The Ferret when the mouth is cop , tO . does drive the Coney to the Ne Down Plumton park , etc The Pike devours the Salmon free , which is a better Fish than himself : Some care not how whose children cry , so that themselves may keep their pelf : Down Plumpton park , etc Farewell good people less and more , both great and small that did me ken : Farewell rich , and farewell poor , and farewell all good Servingmen ; Down Plumpton park , etc Now by my death I wish all know , that this same lesson you may teach , Of what degree , of high , or low , climb not I say above your reach : Down Plumpton park , etc Good Gentlemen I you entreat , that have more sons than you have lands , In idleness do not them keep , teach them to labour with their hands : Down Plumpton park ; etc For idleness is the root of evil , and this since never goes alone : But Theft and Robbery follows after , as by my self is plainly shown : Down plumpton park , etc For Youth & Age , will not understand , that friends in want , they be but cold , If they spend their portions and lack land they may go beg when they are old : Down Plumpton park , etc Farewell , farewell my brethren dear , sweet Sisters make no doal for me : My death's at hand I do not fear , we are all mortal and born to die : Down Plumpton park , etc I know that Christ did die for me , no earthly pleasures would I have : I care not for the world a fly , but mercy Lord of thee I crave . Down Plumpton park , etc Come man of death and do me right , my glass is run I cannot stay : With Christ I hope to lodge this night and all good people for me pray : Down Plumpton park , etc The man of death his part did play , which made the tears blind many and eye He is with Christ , as I dare say , the Lord grant us that so we may : Down Plumpton park , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 