The PRESUMPTUOUS SINNER ; A Noble Lord of high renown , As he was coursing up and down , Through groves and shady valleys green , By him and aged man was seen . With ax in hand , cleaving of wood , Now as he at his labour stood , Ah! Adam , Adam , was his tone , Still as he labour'd all alone . He sigh'd as if his heart would break , And said at every heavy stroke , Ah! Adam , Adam , was his cries , While tears did trickle from his eyes . At length behold the noble Peer , As he these words did overhear , Said , aged man , pray let me know Why you do talk of Adam so ? The old man answer'd him , and said The laws of God he disobey'd , By eating the forbidden fruit , And thus our sins at first took root . For if that branch had never been , We had been bless'd , and free from since , In that sweet state of innocence , But sorrow came by his offence . For Adam's found curiosity , It was ordain'd that he should be , Oppressed by sorrow , grief , and pain , Till he return'd to earth again . And I , one of poor Adam's heirs , Do earn my bred with anxious cares , And at his fallen I was brought to This labour which I now go through . Why did he not his wife oppose ? Why did he with the serpent close ? Why did he on the apple feed , Which did so many sorrows breed ? The garden was at his command The loaded branches kiss'd his hand , Which he might pull with pleasure free , All but that one forbidden tree . The nobleman he then reply'd , 'Tis true , Adam he turn'd aside From God's commands and did the thing Which does continual sorrow bring . Yet don't reflect upon him so , The very same for ought I know , Thou might have done to thy disgrace , If thou had been in Adam's place . No , says he , the command was great , Beside that very blessed state Of innocence was free from care , We should have liv'd and flourish'd there . I'd not have touch'd the tree of life , For ever a serpent , fiend , or wife ; Behold there was enough beside . If man could have been satisfy'd . But farther hear what I say , The fruit was beautiful and gay , This made him soon consent , when woo'd To taste , of the forbidden food . Most men are of a longing mind , Still as by law they are confin'd , For this or that they long the more To taste , tho' death stands at the door . Right worthy sir , I would have stood Upon my guard for future good , And none should e'er have wrought on me To taste to the forbidden tree . All but that very tree alone , The Lord hath made all Adam's own , Which was enough and eke to spare , What could he not that one forbear . With that reply'd the noble Lord , Thou shall receive a large reward , And thou shalt never work again , If from one thing thou wilt abstain . Thou seem'st to be as poor a Job , But I'll give thee a royal robe , A chain of gold and palace gay , While these order thou must obey . Thou shalt have honours , pomp , and state And like the mighty potentate , Music shall lull thee to thy rest , No heat or cold shall thee molest . And every day I will afford The best of food to grace thy board , Choice dainties forty more or less , But one shall be a cover'd mess . That shall be brought to thee each day Among the rest ; then took away Still at the ending of the feast , Yet thou shan't touch it in the least . These Just commands be sure thou keep , For if thou ventur'st once to peep Under the cover more or less , You forfeit all your happiness . Said he , my Lord , I do declare , From time to time I will forbear , Touching that private cover'd mess , In any manner more or less . Altho' it does before me stand , I'll never touch it with my hand . Nor in the least be found to see , What is conceal'd and hid from me . In all obedience I'll remain , You shall not in the least complain ; I'll never do as Adam did , To taste of that which is forbid . Then come and follow me , I pray , Henceforth old Father come this day , Thou shalt not labour , carp , nor care , If this one thing thou dost forbear . After this noble Lord he goes , Who stripped him of his Leather Clothes , Then deck'd him like a noble Peer , Of many thousand Pounds a year . His Coach , his Star , his Chain of gold , A sumptuous palace to behold , With all things to his heart's content , Just for to see the strange event . The Lord who had this promis'd made , Did cause him strait to be array'd , In robes of rich embroider'd gold , And sent him Dishes manifold . The best that all the Land can yield , From Forest , Garden , Park , or Field , With Fish , Fowls , and all that might Sweeten his Want and appetite . In midst of Joy his Life was led , And was with curious dainties fed ; He wanted neither food nor mirth , To make him happy here on earth . The Lord allow'd that he should have , Whate'er his heart did wish or crave , And so he had , but see at last , How he did all his glories blast . For day by day still as he din'd , The cover'd Mess ran in his mind . He wants to know what there was hid Altho' he knew it was forbid . Though he had plenty at his board , That court or kingdom could afford , Yet this one thing he wants to know , Which stood before him cover'd so . His fancy to that height was grown , That as he feasted all alone , Resolv'd he was to satisfy His foolish found curiosity . With that he raised up the dish , But there was neither flesh nor fish , But out there jump'd a living mouse , Which ran from him across the House . Which he could not again retrieve , With that he strait began to grieve , As soon as e'er he saw it run , He sighing said , I am undone . A Fault which makes me blush for shame I am as much and more to blame Than Adam was , without Dispute Who tasted the forbidden fruit . Alas ! he had no presiden To warn him of the like event , As I have had from time to time , Therefore the greater is my crime . While thus he did lamenting stand , Behold the servants out of hand , Were sent to clear the table strait . This led to his unhappy fate . For having search'd the cover's mess , Which he was never to possess , And finding that the mouse was fled , He to the Noble Lord was led . Who then examin'd him and said , Wherefore hast thou disobey'd My just commands ? Come tell me true Was I not good and kind to you ? I herd your groans and piteous cries , And saw the tears drop from your eyes , When Adam you was please to blame , Because thro' him your labour came . When you was compassed with Cares , As being one of Adam's heirs ; Who suffer'd by his fatal Fallen , I took you in and gave you all . That e'er your heart could wish or crave Nothing but pleasure should you have While in the world you did remain , If from one thing you would abstain . With great presumption you reply'd , That my commands should be your guide These were the words you spoke , Yet now thou hast that promise broke , Which has offended me indeed , Strip off those Royal Robes with speed , And take your Leather coat once more , For thou shalt labour as before . The poor man said , I must confess , 'Tis thro' my own Unworthiness , That I must with these pleasures part , Therefore it is my just desert . The Nobleman said prithee go , And don't reflect on Adam so , As thou hast done , for as I'm true , I find a greater fault in you . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , London . The PRESUMPTUOUS SINNER ; A Noble Lord of high renown , As he was coursing up and down , Through groves and shady valleys green , By him and aged man was seen . With ax in hand , cleaving of wood , Now as he at his labour stood , Ah! Adam , Adam , was his tone , Still as he labour'd all alone . He sigh'd as if his heart would break , And said at every heavy stroke , Ah! Adam , Adam , was his cries , While tears did trickle from his eyes . At length behold the noble Peer , As he these words did overhear , Said , aged man , pray let me know Why you do talk of Adam so ? The old man answer'd him , and said The laws of God he disobey'd , By eating the forbidden fruit , And thus our sins at first took root . For if that branch had never been , We had been bless'd , and free from since , In that sweet state of innocence , But sorrow came by his offence . For Adam's found curiosity , It was ordain'd that he should be , Oppressed by sorrow , grief , and pain , Till he return'd to earth again . And I , one of poor Adam's heirs , Do earn my bred with anxious cares , And at his fallen I was brought to This labour which I now go through . Why did he not his wife oppose ? Why did he with the serpent close ? Why did he on the apple feed , Which did so many sorrows breed ? The garden was at his command The loaded branches kiss'd his hand , Which he might pull with pleasure free , All but that one forbidden tree . The nobleman he then reply'd , 'Tis true , Adam he turn'd aside From God's commands and did the thing Which does continual sorrow bring . Yet don't reflect upon him so , The very same for ought I know , Thou might have done to thy disgrace , If thou had been in Adam's place . No , says he , the command was great , Beside that very blessed state Of innocence was free from care , We should have liv'd and flourish'd there . I'd not have touch'd the tree of life , For ever a serpent , fiend , or wife ; Behold there was enough beside . If man could have been satisfy'd . But farther hear what I say , The fruit was beautiful and gay , This made him soon consent , when woo'd To taste , of the forbidden food . Most men are of a longing mind , Still as by law they are confin'd , For this or that they long the more To taste , tho' death stands at the door . Right worthy sir , I would have stood Upon my guard for future good , And none should e'er have wrought on me To taste to the forbidden tree . All but that very tree alone , The Lord hath made all Adam's own , Which was enough and eke to spare , What could he not that one forbear . With that reply'd the noble Lord , Thou shall receive a large reward , And thou shalt never work again , If from one thing thou wilt abstain . Thou seem'st to be as poor a Job , But I'll give thee a royal robe , A chain of gold and palace gay , While these order thou must obey . Thou shalt have honours , pomp , and state And like the mighty potentate , Music shall lull thee to thy rest , No heat or cold shall thee molest . And every day I will afford The best of food to grace thy board , Choice dainties forty more or less , But one shall be a cover'd mess . That shall be brought to thee each day Among the rest ; then took away Still at the ending of the feast , Yet thou shan't touch it in the least . These Just commands be sure thou keep , For if thou ventur'st once to peep Under the cover more or less , You forfeit all your happiness . Said he , my Lord , I do declare , From time to time I will forbear , Touching that private cover'd mess , In any manner more or less . Altho' it does before me stand , I'll never touch it with my hand . Nor in the least be found to see , What is conceal'd and hid from me . In all obedience I'll remain , You shall not in the least complain ; I'll never do as Adam did , To taste of that which is forbid . Then come and follow me , I pray , Henceforth old Father come this day , Thou shalt not labour , carp , nor care , If this one thing thou dost forbear . After this noble Lord he goes , Who stripped him of his Leather Clothes , Then deck'd him like a noble Peer , Of many thousand Pounds a year . His Coach , his Star , his Chain of gold , A sumptuous palace to behold , With all things to his heart's content , Just for to see the strange event . The Lord who had this promis'd made , Did cause him strait to be array'd , In robes of rich embroider'd gold , And sent him Dishes manifold . The best that all the Land can yield , From Forest , Garden , Park , or Field , With Fish , Fowls , and all that might Sweeten his Want and appetite . In midst of Joy his Life was led , And was with curious dainties fed ; He wanted neither food nor mirth , To make him happy here on earth . The Lord allow'd that he should have , Whate'er his heart did wish or crave , And so he had , but see at last , How he did all his glories blast . For day by day still as he din'd , The cover'd Mess ran in his mind . He wants to know what there was hid Altho' he knew it was forbid . Though he had plenty at his board , That court or kingdom could afford , Yet this one thing he wants to know , Which stood before him cover'd so . His fancy to that height was grown , That as he feasted all alone , Resolv'd he was to satisfy His foolish found curiosity . With that he raised up the dish , But there was neither flesh nor fish , But out there jump'd a living mouse , Which ran from him across the House . Which he could not again retrieve , With that he strait began to grieve , As soon as e'er he saw it run , He sighing said , I am undone . A Fault which makes me blush for shame I am as much and more to blame Than Adam was , without Dispute Who tasted the forbidden fruit . Alas ! he had no presiden To warn him of the like event , As I have had from time to time , Therefore the greater is my crime . While thus he did lamenting stand , Behold the servants out of hand , Were sent to clear the table strait . This led to his unhappy fate . For having search'd the cover's mess , Which he was never to possess , And finding that the mouse was fled , He to the Noble Lord was led . Who then examin'd him and said , Wherefore hast thou disobey'd My just commands ? Come tell me true Was I not good and kind to you ? I herd your groans and piteous cries , And saw the tears drop from your eyes , When Adam you was please to blame , Because thro' him your labour came . When you was compassed with Cares , As being one of Adam's heirs ; Who suffer'd by his fatal Fallen , I took you in and gave you all . That e'er your heart could wish or crave Nothing but pleasure should you have While in the world you did remain , If from one thing you would abstain . With great presumption you reply'd , That my commands should be your guide These were the words you spoke , Yet now thou hast that promise broke , Which has offended me indeed , Strip off those Royal Robes with speed , And take your Leather coat once more , For thou shalt labour as before . The poor man said , I must confess , 'Tis thro' my own Unworthiness , That I must with these pleasures part , Therefore it is my just desert . The Nobleman said prithee go , And don't reflect on Adam so , As thou hast done , for as I'm true , I find a greater fault in you . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , London . 