Patient Grissel . And Excellent BALLAD , A Noble Marquis , as he was hunting , Hard by a forest side , A fair and comely maiden as she did fit a spinning . His gentle eye espy'd . Most fair and lovely , and of a comely grace was she , Altho' in simple attire : She sung most sweetly , with a pleasant voice melodiously , Which set his heart on fire , The more he look'd the more he might , this beauty did his heart delight . So to her went with speed : God bless the famous flower , mistress of his bower , Thy beauty has caus'd my heart to bleed . With comely gesture , and modest kind behaviour , She bid him welcome then : She entertain'd him in a faithful friendly manner , And all his gentlemen . The noble Marquis , in his heart felt such a flame Which set his senses all at strife : Quoth he , fair maiden , show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissel is my name , said she , far unfit for thy degree , And of parents poor . Nay , Grissel , thou art rich , he said , a virtuous fair , and comely maid , Grant me thy love , I ask no more . At length she consented , and being both contented , They married were with speed : Her country russet was chang'd to silk and velvet , As to her state agreed . And when that she was attired in the same , Her beauty shin'd most bright , Far exceeding every other fair and princely dame That did appear in sighed . Many envied her therefore , because she was of parents poor And 'twixt her Lord and she great strife did raise , Some said this and that , some call'd her beggar's bram And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O noble Marquis , said they , why dost thou wrong us ? Thus basely for to wed : Who might have got and honourable lady Unto thy princely bed . Who will now thy noble issue soon deride , Which shall hereafter be born , Which are of blood so base , born on the mother's side , Which will bring them to scorn . Put her therefore quite away , and take to you a lady gay Thereby your lineage may renowned be : Thus every day they seem'd to prate at fair Grissel's good estate Who all this while took it patiently . When that the Marquis did see they were bent Against his bashful wife , Whom he most dearly , tender , and entirely Did love as his life . Minding in secret for to prove her patient heart , Thus her foes to disgrace , Thinking to show her and inconstant act , That men might pity her disgrace . Big with child the lady was , and at last it came to pass Two godly children at one birth she had , A son and daughter God hath sent , which did them content And made both their hearts full glad . The Marquis sent a messenger for his young daughter , and son : Declaring they should murdered be , She wrung her hands and said no more , Only my Lord must be obey'd , said she , She took the babies from the nursing ladies , Between her tender arms : And said with weeping sorrowful kisses . That she might ease their harms . Farewell , farewell , a thousand times , my children dear , Never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me , you mournful mother dear , For whose sake you must me slave . Had I been born of royal raze , you'd liv'd in happy case ; But you must die for my unworthiness : Come messenger of death , said she , take my dear babes to thee , And to their father my complaints express . He took the children dear , and to his master He boar them hence with speed , Who in secret sent them unto a noble lady , To be brought up indeed . Then to fair Grissel with a heavey heart he goes , Where she sat mildly all alone . A pleasant gesture and a look she shows , As if no grief she had known , Said he , my children now are slave , what thinks Grissel of the same , Come show thy mind to me For I no joy can have Till thou art banish'd from my court and presence , As they unjustly crave . Thou must be stripped to thy best garments aid , And as thou cam'st to me In homely gray instead of silks and pearls , Thy clothing all must be . My lady thou must be no more , ( which grieves me soar , ) The poorest life must now content thy mind ; A groat I dare not give to maintain thee while I live . Against my Grissel such foes I find . When gentle Grissel did hear these tidings , The tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answer'd , no words of discontent She from her mouth lets fly . Her velvet gown most patiently stripped off , Her kirtle was the same ; Her russet gown was brought her down , And she put on the same again . With many tears , Let not offence be found in this , Unto my Lord , quoth she ; To give my Lord a parting kiss with watery eyes , Farewell my dear , said she . From her princely palace to her father's cottage Poor Grissel she is gone : Full fifteen winter's she lived there content , No wrongs she thought upon . And at this time through all the land news went , The Marquis should married be Unto a lady of high descent , And to the same did all agree , The Marquis bid Grissel the bride's chamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found away And that in friendly sort she would attire The bride upon that day . Most willingly she gave consent to do the same , The bride in bravery was dressed And presently the Marquis thither came , With all the Lords at his request . O Grissel , I will ask of thee , if to this match thou wilt agree Methinks thy looks are vexed wond'rous coy , With that they all began to smile , and Grissel she replied the while God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved to see his best beloved He then stepped to her , and took her by the hand , These words he did express . Thou art my life , my joy , and only pride , Thus patient in distress . And all the brides I mean to have , The youthful lady , hearing of this Did on her knees her blessing crave ; Her brother too as well as she . Then the Marquis said Blush you that envy her estate ; for chronicles shall fame , Her patience ; and posterity shall praise . My virtuous , constant , patient Grissel's name . Patient Grissel . And Excellent BALLAD , A Noble Marquis , as he was hunting , Hard by a forest side , A fair and comely maiden as she did fit a spinning . His gentle eye espy'd . Most fair and lovely , and of a comely grace was she , Altho' in simple attire : She sung most sweetly , with a pleasant voice melodiously , Which set his heart on fire , The more he look'd the more he might , this beauty did his heart delight . So to her went with speed : God bless the famous flower , mistress of his bower , Thy beauty has caus'd my heart to bleed . With comely gesture , and modest kind behaviour , She bid him welcome then : She entertain'd him in a faithful friendly manner , And all his gentlemen . The noble Marquis , in his heart felt such a flame Which set his senses all at strife : Quoth he , fair maiden , show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissel is my name , said she , far unfit for thy degree , And of parents poor . Nay , Grissel , thou art rich , he said , a virtuous fair , and comely maid , Grant me thy love , I ask no more . At length she consented , and being both contented , They married were with speed : Her country russet was chang'd to silk and velvet , As to her state agreed . And when that she was attired in the same , Her beauty shin'd most bright , Far exceeding every other fair and princely dame That did appear in sighed . Many envied her therefore , because she was of parents poor And 'twixt her Lord and she great strife did raise , Some said this and that , some call'd her beggar's bram And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O noble Marquis , said they , why dost thou wrong us ? Thus basely for to wed : Who might have got and honourable lady Unto thy princely bed . Who will now thy noble issue soon deride , Which shall hereafter be born , Which are of blood so base , born on the mother's side , Which will bring them to scorn . Put her therefore quite away , and take to you a lady gay Thereby your lineage may renowned be : Thus every day they seem'd to prate at fair Grissel's good estate Who all this while took it patiently . When that the Marquis did see they were bent Against his bashful wife , Whom he most dearly , tender , and entirely Did love as his life . Minding in secret for to prove her patient heart , Thus her foes to disgrace , Thinking to show her and inconstant act , That men might pity her disgrace . Big with child the lady was , and at last it came to pass Two godly children at one birth she had , A son and daughter God hath sent , which did them content And made both their hearts full glad . The Marquis sent a messenger for his young daughter , and son : Declaring they should murdered be , She wrung her hands and said no more , Only my Lord must be obey'd , said she , She took the babies from the nursing ladies , Between her tender arms : And said with weeping sorrowful kisses . That she might ease their harms . Farewell , farewell , a thousand times , my children dear , Never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me , you mournful mother dear , For whose sake you must me slave . Had I been born of royal raze , you'd liv'd in happy case ; But you must die for my unworthiness : Come messenger of death , said she , take my dear babes to thee , And to their father my complaints express . He took the children dear , and to his master He boar them hence with speed , Who in secret sent them unto a noble lady , To be brought up indeed . Then to fair Grissel with a heavey heart he goes , Where she sat mildly all alone . A pleasant gesture and a look she shows , As if no grief she had known , Said he , my children now are slave , what thinks Grissel of the same , Come show thy mind to me For I no joy can have Till thou art banish'd from my court and presence , As they unjustly crave . Thou must be stripped to thy best garments aid , And as thou cam'st to me In homely gray instead of silks and pearls , Thy clothing all must be . My lady thou must be no more , ( which grieves me soar , ) The poorest life must now content thy mind ; A groat I dare not give to maintain thee while I live . Against my Grissel such foes I find . When gentle Grissel did hear these tidings , The tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answer'd , no words of discontent She from her mouth lets fly . Her velvet gown most patiently stripped off , Her kirtle was the same ; Her russet gown was brought her down , And she put on the same again . With many tears , Let not offence be found in this , Unto my Lord , quoth she ; To give my Lord a parting kiss with watery eyes , Farewell my dear , said she . From her princely palace to her father's cottage Poor Grissel she is gone : Full fifteen winter's she lived there content , No wrongs she thought upon . And at this time through all the land news went , The Marquis should married be Unto a lady of high descent , And to the same did all agree , The Marquis bid Grissel the bride's chamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found away And that in friendly sort she would attire The bride upon that day . Most willingly she gave consent to do the same , The bride in bravery was dressed And presently the Marquis thither came , With all the Lords at his request . O Grissel , I will ask of thee , if to this match thou wilt agree Methinks thy looks are vexed wond'rous coy , With that they all began to smile , and Grissel she replied the while God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved to see his best beloved He then stepped to her , and took her by the hand , These words he did express . Thou art my life , my joy , and only pride , Thus patient in distress . And all the brides I mean to have , The youthful lady , hearing of this Did on her knees her blessing crave ; Her brother too as well as she . Then the Marquis said Blush you that envy her estate ; for chronicles shall fame , Her patience ; and posterity shall praise . My virtuous , constant , patient Grissel's name . 