THE Nobe men Generous Kindness , OR , The Country-Mans Unexpected Happiness , Giving a true Account of a Nobleman , who taking notice of the Poor Man's Industrious Care and pains for the maintaining of his Charge , which was seven small Children , meeting him upon a day , Discoursed with him , and inviting him and his Wife , with his Children , home to his House , and accordingly bestow - ed upon him a Farm of Thirty Acres of Land , to be continued to him and his Heirs forever . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be printed , R.P. A Noble Man liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose charge it was great He had seven Children , & most of them small , And none but his Labour to keep them withal . He never was given to Idle and Lurk , This Noble Man seeing go daily to Work : His Flail , with his bag and his bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that had hundreds a year . Thus careful and constant each morning he went To his daily Labour with joy and content , So jocund and jolly , both Whistle and Sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring . One morning this Noble Man taking his Walk , He met with this Poor Man , and freely did talk ; He asked him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking concerning his Charge . Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy Labour is hard , and thy Wages is low , And yet thou art cheerful ; I pray tell me true , How you do maintain them so well as you do . I carefully carry home all that I Earn , Now daily experience by this I do learn ; That though it is possible we may live poor , We still keep a ravenous Wolf from the door . I Reap and I Mow , and I Harrow and Sow , Sometime I to Hedging and Ditching do go : No Work comes amiss , for I Thresh and I Blow , Thus I eat my Bred by the sweat of my Brow. My Wife she is willing to pull in the Yoke , We live like two Lambs , and we never provoke Each other , but like to the labouring Ant , We do our endeavour to keep us from want . And when I come home from my Labour at night , To my Wife and Children , in whom I delight , To hear them come round me with tattling noise ; Now these are the Riches that poor men enjoys . Though I am as weary as weary may be , The youngest I commonly dance on my Knee : I find that Content is and absolute Feast , I never repin'd at my Charge in the least . The Noble Man hearing then what he did say , Was pleas'd , and invited him home the next day : His Wife and his Children he charg'd them to bring In token of favour , he gave him a Ring . Then thanked his Honour , and taking his leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe , But that this strange story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the Ring she was then in a maze . Betimes in the morning the good Wife arose , And made them all fine with the best of their Close . The good Man and Wife , with his Children small , They then was to Dine at the Noble Man's Hall . But when they came there , as the truth does report , All things was prepar'd in a plentiful sor And they at the Noble men Table did Dine , With all sorts of Dainties , with plenty of Wine . All this being over , he soon let him know , What he then intended on him to bestow : A Farm , with full thirty good Acres of Land And gave him the Writings then with his own hand . Because thou wast careful and good to thy wife , I'le make thy days happy the rest of thy life It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heir , For why , I beheld thy Industrious Care . No tongue then was able in full to express , The depth of their joy , and their true thankfulness : With many a Curtsy and Bow to the ground , But such Noble Men there is few to be found . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . THE Nobe men Generous Kindness , OR , The Country-Mans Unexpected Happiness , Giving a true Account of a Nobleman , who taking notice of the Poor Man's Industrious Care and pains for the maintaining of his Charge , which was seven small Children , meeting him upon a day , Discoursed with him , and inviting him and his Wife , with his Children , home to his House , and accordingly bestow - ed upon him a Farm of Thirty Acres of Land , to be continued to him and his Heirs forever . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be printed , R.P. A Noble Man liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose charge it was great He had seven Children , & most of them small , And none but his Labour to keep them withal . He never was given to Idle and Lurk , This Noble Man seeing go daily to Work : His Flail , with his bag and his bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that had hundreds a year . Thus careful and constant each morning he went To his daily Labour with joy and content , So jocund and jolly , both Whistle and Sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring . One morning this Noble Man taking his Walk , He met with this Poor Man , and freely did talk ; He asked him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking concerning his Charge . Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy Labour is hard , and thy Wages is low , And yet thou art cheerful ; I pray tell me true , How you do maintain them so well as you do . I carefully carry home all that I Earn , Now daily experience by this I do learn ; That though it is possible we may live poor , We still keep a ravenous Wolf from the door . I Reap and I Mow , and I Harrow and Sow , Sometime I to Hedging and Ditching do go : No Work comes amiss , for I Thresh and I Blow , Thus I eat my Bred by the sweat of my Brow. My Wife she is willing to pull in the Yoke , We live like two Lambs , and we never provoke Each other , but like to the labouring Ant , We do our endeavour to keep us from want . And when I come home from my Labour at night , To my Wife and Children , in whom I delight , To hear them come round me with tattling noise ; Now these are the Riches that poor men enjoys . Though I am as weary as weary may be , The youngest I commonly dance on my Knee : I find that Content is and absolute Feast , I never repin'd at my Charge in the least . The Noble Man hearing then what he did say , Was pleas'd , and invited him home the next day : His Wife and his Children he charg'd them to bring In token of favour , he gave him a Ring . Then thanked his Honour , and taking his leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe , But that this strange story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the Ring she was then in a maze . Betimes in the morning the good Wife arose , And made them all fine with the best of their Close . The good Man and Wife , with his Children small , They then was to Dine at the Noble Man's Hall . But when they came there , as the truth does report , All things was prepar'd in a plentiful sor And they at the Noble men Table did Dine , With all sorts of Dainties , with plenty of Wine . All this being over , he soon let him know , What he then intended on him to bestow : A Farm , with full thirty good Acres of Land And gave him the Writings then with his own hand . Because thou wast careful and good to thy wife , I'le make thy days happy the rest of thy life It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heir , For why , I beheld thy Industrious Care . No tongue then was able in full to express , The depth of their joy , and their true thankfulness : With many a Curtsy and Bow to the ground , But such Noble Men there is few to be found . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 