A Caution for SCOLDS : OR , A True way of Taming a SHREW . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing . This may be Printed , R.r. A Noble Man he Marry'd with a cruel Scold , Who in her humours would ne'r be controul'd , So that he was almost weary of his Life , By the cross humours of his froward Wife : Although he show'd himself exceeding kind , Yet she was still of a turbulent mind ; Husband and Servants her Fury must feel , For in their Ears she would Ring them a Peal . When any Friend approach'd the presence of her Lord , By this vile Shrew they were strangely abhor'd ; With cruel Frowns and Railings she would them salute Tho' they were Persons of worthy Repute , All was a case , for she would have her Will , And the whole House with Confusion she'd fill ; So that for fear of the heat of her Fray , They have been forc'd to run packing away . It was his chance to make a worthy noble Feast , Inviting full forty couple at least , Both Lords & Earls , with virtuous Ladies of high fame Who in true Friendship accordingly came : All sorts of Dainties he then did prepare , No cost nor charge in the least did he spare ; But e're they could to their Banqueting fallen , Sirs , you shall hear how she welcom'd them all . When she beheld the costly Dishes of rich Meat , This Shrew had not any Stomach to Eat , But did cry out , I shall be Ruin'd at this rate , This is enough to consume and Estate : Before she any more words did reply , She made both Bottles and Dishes to fly ; Both Friends and Husband she there did abuse , Asking him how he dare be so profuse ? Like Thunder loud , her voice she straight began to raise , Which made the Guest to stand all in amaze , Who never saw the like in all their lives before , Dishes of Meat they lay strow'd on the floor : Thus in disorder they all went their way , Each one was glad they were out of the fray : Then said her Husband , did ever Man know , Any poor Mortal so plagu'd with a Shrow . Now the next day he to a skilful Doctor went , Promising that he would give him content , If he could cure the cause of a Distracted Wife , Which almost made him weary of Life : Yes , quoth the Doctor , i'le do it ne'r fear , Bring her , for now 'tis the Spring of the Year ; I'le take the Lunacy out of her Brains , Or else I won't have a Groat for my pains . Then home he went , and sent her thither out of hand , Now when the Shrow she did well understand All their intent , she ca [ l ] l'd the Doctor sneaking Knave , Now when he see she began for to Rave ; Straightways the Doctor did bind her in Bed , Letting her Blood , likewise Shaving her Head : Sirrah , said she , I would have you to know , That you shall suffer for serving me so . Madam , said he , I know you are beside your Wits , But I will soon bring you out of those Fits ; I'le cut your Tongue , and when a Gallon you have bled 'Twill Cure that violent Noise in your Head : Pray Sir , said she , don't afflict me so soar , I'le ne'r offend my sweet Husband no more : Thus by sharp Usage and keeping her low , He had the fortune to Conquer the Shrow . After some time , he came to see his Wife at last , Where she begg'd pardon for all that was passed ; Saying , her Fits for evermore she would refrain , If he'd be pleas'd to receive her again ; My former Follies I pray now forgive , I'le ne'r offend you no more while I live : Then in much love they both homeward did go , Thus has he made a sweet Wife of a Shrow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . A Caution for SCOLDS : OR , A True way of Taming a SHREW . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing . This may be Printed , R.r. A Noble Man he Marry'd with a cruel Scold , Who in her humours would ne'r be controul'd , So that he was almost weary of his Life , By the cross humours of his froward Wife : Although he show'd himself exceeding kind , Yet she was still of a turbulent mind ; Husband and Servants her Fury must feel , For in their Ears she would Ring them a Peal . When any Friend approach'd the presence of her Lord , By this vile Shrew they were strangely abhor'd ; With cruel Frowns and Railings she would them salute Tho' they were Persons of worthy Repute , All was a case , for she would have her Will , And the whole House with Confusion she'd fill ; So that for fear of the heat of her Fray , They have been forc'd to run packing away . It was his chance to make a worthy noble Feast , Inviting full forty couple at least , Both Lords & Earls , with virtuous Ladies of high fame Who in true Friendship accordingly came : All sorts of Dainties he then did prepare , No cost nor charge in the least did he spare ; But e're they could to their Banqueting fallen , Sirs , you shall hear how she welcom'd them all . When she beheld the costly Dishes of rich Meat , This Shrew had not any Stomach to Eat , But did cry out , I shall be Ruin'd at this rate , This is enough to consume and Estate : Before she any more words did reply , She made both Bottles and Dishes to fly ; Both Friends and Husband she there did abuse , Asking him how he dare be so profuse ? Like Thunder loud , her voice she straight began to raise , Which made the Guest to stand all in amaze , Who never saw the like in all their lives before , Dishes of Meat they lay strow'd on the floor : Thus in disorder they all went their way , Each one was glad they were out of the fray : Then said her Husband , did ever Man know , Any poor Mortal so plagu'd with a Shrow . Now the next day he to a skilful Doctor went , Promising that he would give him content , If he could cure the cause of a Distracted Wife , Which almost made him weary of Life : Yes , quoth the Doctor , i'le do it ne'r fear , Bring her , for now 'tis the Spring of the Year ; I'le take the Lunacy out of her Brains , Or else I won't have a Groat for my pains . Then home he went , and sent her thither out of hand , Now when the Shrow she did well understand All their intent , she ca [ l ] l'd the Doctor sneaking Knave , Now when he see she began for to Rave ; Straightways the Doctor did bind her in Bed , Letting her Blood , likewise Shaving her Head : Sirrah , said she , I would have you to know , That you shall suffer for serving me so . Madam , said he , I know you are beside your Wits , But I will soon bring you out of those Fits ; I'le cut your Tongue , and when a Gallon you have bled 'Twill Cure that violent Noise in your Head : Pray Sir , said she , don't afflict me so soar , I'le ne'r offend my sweet Husband no more : Thus by sharp Usage and keeping her low , He had the fortune to Conquer the Shrow . After some time , he came to see his Wife at last , Where she begg'd pardon for all that was passed ; Saying , her Fits for evermore she would refrain , If he'd be pleas'd to receive her again ; My former Follies I pray now forgive , I'le ne'r offend you no more while I live : Then in much love they both homeward did go , Thus has he made a sweet Wife of a Shrow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . 