And Excellent BALLAD of Noble Marquis and Patient Grissel . To the Tune of The Brides Good-morrow , etc A Noble Marquis As he did ride a hunting hard by a forest side , A fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit a spinning , his gentle eye espy'd : Most fair and lovely And of comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly , With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the Lord's heart on fire . The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his heart's deligh And to this Damosel then he went with speed , Godspeed , quod he , thou famous flower , Fair mistress of this homely bower , Where Love and Virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour , she bids him welcome then ; She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis In h [ i ] s heart felt such a flame , which set his senses all at strife , Quoth he , Fair maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissel is my name , quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly maiden , and of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous fair and comely maid ; Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed ; Her Country russet Was chang'd to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed : And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every other Fair and princely Dame , that did appear in sighs Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Begger's brat , And to her Lord they would her of 't dispraise : Oh Noble Marquis , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady into your princely bed ? Who will not now Your noble Issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base Born by the mother's side , the which shall bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be . Thus every day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissels good estate ; Who all this while took it most patiently . When that the Marquis Did see that they were bent thus against his faithful wife , Whom he most dearly , Tenderly and entirely beloved as his life ; Minding in secret For to try her patient heart , thereby her foes for to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous part , that men might pity her case ; Great with child the Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly children at one birth she had : A Son and Daughter God had sent , Which did their mother well content . And which did make their father's heart full glad : Great royal feasting Was at these Children's christening , and princely triumph made ; Six weeks together All Nobles that came thither , were entertain'd and stayed ; And when that all the pleasant Sporting quite was done , the Marquis a messenger sent For his young daughter , And his pretty smiling son ; declaring his full intent , How that the babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree : Come let me have the Children , then he said . With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands , & said no more , My gracious Lord must have his will obey'd . She took the babes Even from the Nursing-ladies , between her tender arms ; She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms : Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my children dear , never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me your sad and woeful mother here , for whose sake both must be slave , Had I been born of Royal Raze , You might have liv'd in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness ; Come messenger of death , quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , And to their father my complaints express . He took the children , And to his Noble master he boar them thence with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a noble Lady to be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone ; A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known : Quod he , my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same ? Sweet Grissel now declare thy mind to me . Sith you my Lord are pleas'd with it Poor Grissel thinks this actium fit ; Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissel , at thy honour , and I no joy can have , Till thou be banish'd Both from my court and presence , as they unjustly crave : Thou must be strip'd Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou cam'st to me In homely grey , Instead of bliss and purest pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar . The poorest life must now content thy mind : A Groat to thee I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her lips arise . Her velvet-gown Most patiently she striped off , her kertle of silk with the same : Her russet gown Was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them herself she did frame : When she was dressed in this array , And ready for to pass away , God send long life unto my Lord , quoth she Led no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss ; With watery eyes , Farewell my Dear , said she From princely palace Unto her father's cottage poor Grissel she is gone ; Full fifteen winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon : And at this time through All the land the speeches went , the Marquis should married be Unto a noble Lady Of high decent , and to the same all parties did agree . The marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some : But Grissel took all this most patiently . And in the morning When as they should be wedded , her patience there was try'd , Grissel was charged Herself in friendly manner for to attire the bride : Most willingly She gave consent to do the same ; the bride in bravery was dressed . And presently The noble marquis thither came , with all his lords at his Reques Oh Grissel I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy : With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she reply'd the while , God send Lord Marquis many Years of Joy . The marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express : Thou art my bride , And all the brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she . And you that envy her estate , Whom I have made my chosen mate , Now blush for shame , and honour virtuous life ; The Chronicles of lasting fame , Shall evermore extol the name Of Patient GRISSEL , my most constant wife . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . And Excellent BALLAD of Noble Marquis and Patient Grissel . To the Tune of The Brides Good-morrow , etc A Noble Marquis As he did ride a hunting hard by a forest side , A fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit a spinning , his gentle eye espy'd : Most fair and lovely And of comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly , With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the Lord's heart on fire . The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his heart's deligh And to this Damosel then he went with speed , Godspeed , quod he , thou famous flower , Fair mistress of this homely bower , Where Love and Virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour , she bids him welcome then ; She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis In h [ i ] s heart felt such a flame , which set his senses all at strife , Quoth he , Fair maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissel is my name , quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly maiden , and of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous fair and comely maid ; Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed ; Her Country russet Was chang'd to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed : And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every other Fair and princely Dame , that did appear in sighs Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Begger's brat , And to her Lord they would her of 't dispraise : Oh Noble Marquis , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady into your princely bed ? Who will not now Your noble Issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base Born by the mother's side , the which shall bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be . Thus every day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissels good estate ; Who all this while took it most patiently . When that the Marquis Did see that they were bent thus against his faithful wife , Whom he most dearly , Tenderly and entirely beloved as his life ; Minding in secret For to try her patient heart , thereby her foes for to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous part , that men might pity her case ; Great with child the Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly children at one birth she had : A Son and Daughter God had sent , Which did their mother well content . And which did make their father's heart full glad : Great royal feasting Was at these Children's christening , and princely triumph made ; Six weeks together All Nobles that came thither , were entertain'd and stayed ; And when that all the pleasant Sporting quite was done , the Marquis a messenger sent For his young daughter , And his pretty smiling son ; declaring his full intent , How that the babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree : Come let me have the Children , then he said . With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands , & said no more , My gracious Lord must have his will obey'd . She took the babes Even from the Nursing-ladies , between her tender arms ; She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms : Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my children dear , never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me your sad and woeful mother here , for whose sake both must be slave , Had I been born of Royal Raze , You might have liv'd in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness ; Come messenger of death , quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , And to their father my complaints express . He took the children , And to his Noble master he boar them thence with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a noble Lady to be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone ; A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known : Quod he , my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same ? Sweet Grissel now declare thy mind to me . Sith you my Lord are pleas'd with it Poor Grissel thinks this actium fit ; Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissel , at thy honour , and I no joy can have , Till thou be banish'd Both from my court and presence , as they unjustly crave : Thou must be strip'd Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou cam'st to me In homely grey , Instead of bliss and purest pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar . The poorest life must now content thy mind : A Groat to thee I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her lips arise . Her velvet-gown Most patiently she striped off , her kertle of silk with the same : Her russet gown Was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them herself she did frame : When she was dressed in this array , And ready for to pass away , God send long life unto my Lord , quoth she Led no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss ; With watery eyes , Farewell my Dear , said she From princely palace Unto her father's cottage poor Grissel she is gone ; Full fifteen winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon : And at this time through All the land the speeches went , the Marquis should married be Unto a noble Lady Of high decent , and to the same all parties did agree . The marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some : But Grissel took all this most patiently . And in the morning When as they should be wedded , her patience there was try'd , Grissel was charged Herself in friendly manner for to attire the bride : Most willingly She gave consent to do the same ; the bride in bravery was dressed . And presently The noble marquis thither came , with all his lords at his Reques Oh Grissel I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy : With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she reply'd the while , God send Lord Marquis many Years of Joy . The marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express : Thou art my bride , And all the brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she . And you that envy her estate , Whom I have made my chosen mate , Now blush for shame , and honour virtuous life ; The Chronicles of lasting fame , Shall evermore extol the name Of Patient GRISSEL , my most constant wife . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . 