THE FANATIC RAMPANT OR AND ELECTION AT CAMBRIDGE . ONE day I herd a zealous shout I then looked up and lo the rout of Saints were come to town . Who by their Hats right gravely set . And Collar-bands I guess were met to cry the Bishops down . But see how grossly I did err . For they came only to prepare against that Godly bustle . And therefore did most fervently With carnal Throats extended cry , a Russel , yea , a Russel . Some cry'd a Russel , some again Mistook the Name and cry'd Amen . some with erected fist Cry'd Oh , we find by Revelation That this is he must heal the Nation and hamstring Antichrist . At length there comes me a Freeholder With head inclin'd to the left shouder and Circumcised hair . Who with his snout all wet with snivel and looks enough to scare a Devil Did thus begin his Prayer . Lord , if thou dos't thy Saints regard Look on the keepers of thy Herd Even on thy chosen Russel . See but what honour we have done him And then , thou needs must pour upon him Thy blessings by the Bushel . Thy tender flock ( Lord ) hel'e not pound but does regard the Poor . Lord he hath done more for my Wife Than er'e I did in all my life , Oh blessed Senator . Do thou in time his Worship bring To be , to be , a Lordish thing . as was his noble Kin . --- Thou seest how he alone does stand , And hates the great ones of the Land. O well does he begin . Then give him grace Lord not to cease Till he hath broke the Cord of Peace , That Girdle of the Whore . That we again may see that day . In which we all may preach and pray . and then i'le ask no more . With that I spy'd and Image fair High mounted in his stately Chair . I think to mock the Pope . Down Brothers , to the Gallows gang . Said I , he shall not burn but hang though I pay for the Rope . THE FANATIC RAMPANT OR AND ELECTION AT CAMBRIDGE . ONE day I herd a zealous shout I then looked up and lo the rout of Saints were come to town . Who by their Hats right gravely set . And Collar-bands I guess were met to cry the Bishops down . But see how grossly I did err . For they came only to prepare against that Godly bustle . And therefore did most fervently With carnal Throats extended cry , a Russel , yea , a Russel . Some cry'd a Russel , some again Mistook the Name and cry'd Amen . some with erected fist Cry'd Oh , we find by Revelation That this is he must heal the Nation and hamstring Antichrist . At length there comes me a Freeholder With head inclin'd to the left shouder and Circumcised hair . Who with his snout all wet with snivel and looks enough to scare a Devil Did thus begin his Prayer . Lord , if thou dos't thy Saints regard Look on the keepers of thy Herd Even on thy chosen Russel . See but what honour we have done him And then , thou needs must pour upon him Thy blessings by the Bushel . Thy tender flock ( Lord ) hel'e not pound but does regard the Poor . Lord he hath done more for my Wife Than er'e I did in all my life , Oh blessed Senator . Do thou in time his Worship bring To be , to be , a Lordish thing . as was his noble Kin . --- Thou seest how he alone does stand , And hates the great ones of the Land. O well does he begin . Then give him grace Lord not to cease Till he hath broke the Cord of Peace , That Girdle of the Whore . That we again may see that day . In which we all may preach and pray . and then i'le ask no more . With that I spy'd and Image fair High mounted in his stately Chair . I think to mock the Pope . Down Brothers , to the Gallows gang . Said I , he shall not burn but hang though I pay for the Rope . 