The Hasty VIRGIN , OR , The Languishing Lasses Letter to the Bachelors of London , to Express their Love before it be too late . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . ON the tender Grass , a young bonny Lass , she lay making a sad Complaint ; Sure I am afraid , I shall die a Maid , my Spirits ready are to fain I'm sure that I am Sixteen years of Age , and I dare engage , that I will prove true ; Is there not a Man --- now that can --- Kiss a Maid as he should do ? My poor tender heart , feels such killing smart , that I cannot this long endure ; Did Youngmen but know , what I undergo , sure they'd afford a Maiden Cure : Before that I will longer Languish so , I resolve to go e'ry day to Woo ; Is there not a Man --- now that can --- Kiss a Maid as he should do ? My fair Rosy Cheeks , for these many weeks , has declined their Beauty bright ; These rich Robes I wear , I shall surely tear , if I may not have my Deligh For who'll Marry me when I shall grow Old , Blood and Nature cold , & my Veins look blue Is there not a Man --- now that can --- Kiss a Maid as he should do ? While I lie in Bed , with my Maidenhead , there I rumble from side ; Smite my Snowy Breast , for I cannot rest , because I am not made a Bride : This Maiden-burthen I am forc'd to bear , Ah! the more's my Care , night and day I rue ; Is there not man --- now that can --- Kiss a maid as he should do ? In most rich Array , I vaunt e'ry day , thus fine Feathers does me adorn ; A Love to obtain , tho' it is in vain , what Planet rul'd when I was born ? That I unmarry'd here must live a Maid , then she sighing , said , sorrows must renew ; Is there not a man --- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? Sure their hearts are grown , like the rocky stone that will neither relent nor melt ; They'll not me relieve , tho' I sighs and grieve , Oh that they knew but what I fell I ne'r yet knew the like in all my life , would I was a Wife , Gallants kindness show Is there not a man ----- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? Therefore come away , make no more delay , if a Maidens sweet Life you'l save ; For I cannot live , if you do not give what I so earnestly do crave : Then if one dram of Love you can allow , prithee show it now , while my heart does rue ; Is there not a man ----- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? Like the tender Dove , I'll Embrace and Love , that Young Man that will me adore ; Nay , and e'ry night , yield him much delight , what can Youngmen desire more ? Beside with me he shall have House and Land , all at his Command , Bags of Treasure too ; Is there not a man ----- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . The Hasty VIRGIN , OR , The Languishing Lasses Letter to the Bachelors of London , to Express their Love before it be too late . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . ON the tender Grass , a young bonny Lass , she lay making a sad Complaint ; Sure I am afraid , I shall die a Maid , my Spirits ready are to fain I'm sure that I am Sixteen years of Age , and I dare engage , that I will prove true ; Is there not a Man --- now that can --- Kiss a Maid as he should do ? My poor tender heart , feels such killing smart , that I cannot this long endure ; Did Youngmen but know , what I undergo , sure they'd afford a Maiden Cure : Before that I will longer Languish so , I resolve to go e'ry day to Woo ; Is there not a Man --- now that can --- Kiss a Maid as he should do ? My fair Rosy Cheeks , for these many weeks , has declined their Beauty bright ; These rich Robes I wear , I shall surely tear , if I may not have my Deligh For who'll Marry me when I shall grow Old , Blood and Nature cold , & my Veins look blue Is there not a Man --- now that can --- Kiss a Maid as he should do ? While I lie in Bed , with my Maidenhead , there I rumble from side ; Smite my Snowy Breast , for I cannot rest , because I am not made a Bride : This Maiden-burthen I am forc'd to bear , Ah! the more's my Care , night and day I rue ; Is there not man --- now that can --- Kiss a maid as he should do ? In most rich Array , I vaunt e'ry day , thus fine Feathers does me adorn ; A Love to obtain , tho' it is in vain , what Planet rul'd when I was born ? That I unmarry'd here must live a Maid , then she sighing , said , sorrows must renew ; Is there not a man --- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? Sure their hearts are grown , like the rocky stone that will neither relent nor melt ; They'll not me relieve , tho' I sighs and grieve , Oh that they knew but what I fell I ne'r yet knew the like in all my life , would I was a Wife , Gallants kindness show Is there not a man ----- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? Therefore come away , make no more delay , if a Maidens sweet Life you'l save ; For I cannot live , if you do not give what I so earnestly do crave : Then if one dram of Love you can allow , prithee show it now , while my heart does rue ; Is there not a man ----- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? Like the tender Dove , I'll Embrace and Love , that Young Man that will me adore ; Nay , and e'ry night , yield him much delight , what can Youngmen desire more ? Beside with me he shall have House and Land , all at his Command , Bags of Treasure too ; Is there not a man ----- now that can ----- Kiss a maid as he should do ? FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 