THE Dying Lover's last Farewell : OR , THE Tragical Downfall of Martellus and Arminda . The Shepherd being slighted , did despair , And being soar oppressed with Grief and Care , He did complain that Love he ever try'd , So yielded unto Fate , and there he dy'd : Who when the Nymph could not recall by Art , Her Sorrows swell'd & broke her tender Heart . To and excellent Playhouse Tune , call'd , Stone Walls cannot a Prison make : or , Young Pheon . ONe night when all the Village slept , Martellus sought despair . The wandering Shepherd waking kept to tell the Woods his care : Be gone said he found Thoughts be gone , eyes give your sorrow o're ; Why should you waste your tears for one that thinks on you no more ? Yet all the Birds , the Flocks , and Powers that dwell within the Grove , Can tell how many tender hours we here have pa [ s ] tO in love : You Stars above , my cruel Foes , can tell how she has sworn , A thousand times that like to chosen her flames should ever burn . I thought the Rocks could sooner move , than she her faith betray , I was transported so with love , my senses fled away : When hand in hand we us'd no walk , no joy was like to this , She told me , that I had her heart , and seal'd it with a kiss . But faithless she will ever be , I to my sorrow find , Or else perhaps prove so to me , and to some other kind . But sure the God of Love will show'r down vengeance in the end , And punish by his mighty Power those that his Laws offend . How happy should I count myself for to receive one smile , From her that stole my heart away , and did me so beguile ; My drooping spirits would revive , and I should be at ease , And promise to myself good days my fancy for to please . But since she's gone , Oh let me have my with , and quickly die , In this cold bank I'll make my grave , and there forgotten lie : Sad Nightingales the watch shall keep , and kindly there complain . Then down the Shepherd lay to sleep , and never wak'd again . Arminda coming through the Grove , to ease him of his grief , And finding that her wronged Love was dead passed all relief ; Unto the Gods she did complain , with senses all amaz'd , And sobbed out these words in vain , as on his grave she gaz'd : Oh! why you only Powers above , would you so cruel be , For to deprive me of my Love , e're I his face could see ? Unhappy I whose deep disdain makes me thus sadly crossed , For when I thought to love again I found that I was lost . O let me strive with all my art thy breath for to reprieve , That thou mayest know my lovesick heart does for my Shepherd grieve : With open eyes behold my woe , that am with sorrow slave , Since that I prov'd thy deadly Foe to kill thee with disdain . But o ! alas , I know grim Death he will not bribed be , For to restore his latest breath to see my misery : No sorrow e're was like to mine , come help me for to mourn , That I in tears of watery brine may to a deluge turn . You Birds that warble in the woods , and Beasts so fierce and fell , Bear witness of my dying words , and weep my funeral-knell : Since he is to Elizium gone , who was to me so kind , No longer I can live alone , nor stay one hour behind . I come dear Love , I come she cry'd , make thy Arminda room , Since that for love Martellus dy'd , unto the shades I come . Then fetching of a dying groan , her tender heart it broke , And falling on her Lover's grave , she never after spoke . London : Printed for J. Conyers , near the Standard-Tavern , in Leicester fields . THE Dying Lover's last Farewell : OR , THE Tragical Downfall of Martellus and Arminda . The Shepherd being slighted , did despair , And being soar oppressed with Grief and Care , He did complain that Love he ever try'd , So yielded unto Fate , and there he dy'd : Who when the Nymph could not recall by Art , Her Sorrows swell'd & broke her tender Heart . To and excellent Playhouse Tune , call'd , Stone Walls cannot a Prison make : or , Young Pheon . ONe night when all the Village slept , Martellus sought despair . The wandering Shepherd waking kept to tell the Woods his care : Be gone said he found Thoughts be gone , eyes give your sorrow o're ; Why should you waste your tears for one that thinks on you no more ? Yet all the Birds , the Flocks , and Powers that dwell within the Grove , Can tell how many tender hours we here have pa [ s ] tO in love : You Stars above , my cruel Foes , can tell how she has sworn , A thousand times that like to chosen her flames should ever burn . I thought the Rocks could sooner move , than she her faith betray , I was transported so with love , my senses fled away : When hand in hand we us'd no walk , no joy was like to this , She told me , that I had her heart , and seal'd it with a kiss . But faithless she will ever be , I to my sorrow find , Or else perhaps prove so to me , and to some other kind . But sure the God of Love will show'r down vengeance in the end , And punish by his mighty Power those that his Laws offend . How happy should I count myself for to receive one smile , From her that stole my heart away , and did me so beguile ; My drooping spirits would revive , and I should be at ease , And promise to myself good days my fancy for to please . But since she's gone , Oh let me have my with , and quickly die , In this cold bank I'll make my grave , and there forgotten lie : Sad Nightingales the watch shall keep , and kindly there complain . Then down the Shepherd lay to sleep , and never wak'd again . Arminda coming through the Grove , to ease him of his grief , And finding that her wronged Love was dead passed all relief ; Unto the Gods she did complain , with senses all amaz'd , And sobbed out these words in vain , as on his grave she gaz'd : Oh! why you only Powers above , would you so cruel be , For to deprive me of my Love , e're I his face could see ? Unhappy I whose deep disdain makes me thus sadly crossed , For when I thought to love again I found that I was lost . O let me strive with all my art thy breath for to reprieve , That thou mayest know my lovesick heart does for my Shepherd grieve : With open eyes behold my woe , that am with sorrow slave , Since that I prov'd thy deadly Foe to kill thee with disdain . But o ! alas , I know grim Death he will not bribed be , For to restore his latest breath to see my misery : No sorrow e're was like to mine , come help me for to mourn , That I in tears of watery brine may to a deluge turn . You Birds that warble in the woods , and Beasts so fierce and fell , Bear witness of my dying words , and weep my funeral-knell : Since he is to Elizium gone , who was to me so kind , No longer I can live alone , nor stay one hour behind . I come dear Love , I come she cry'd , make thy Arminda room , Since that for love Martellus dy'd , unto the shades I come . Then fetching of a dying groan , her tender heart it broke , And falling on her Lover's grave , she never after spoke . London : Printed for J. Conyers , near the Standard-Tavern , in Leicester fields . 