( 1 ) OUr Age strange things hath brought to light , OUr Age strange things hath brought to light , And time hath chased away the night ; Now does our Sun his beams display And shows to us a lightsome day . England cheer up , do not repine , A second Charles his Sun shall shine . Black and dark was our morning Star , As darksome night or far blacker , A woeful change did so increase Within our little universe : England cheer up , do not repine A second Charles his Sun shall shine . But now our bright morning does arise And golden hope's does paint our skies , Which in our hearts does comfort breed Because in heaven it is decreed : All sorrows let us now refrain A second Charles once more shall Reign . And let us now ourselves commit , To him that does in Heaven fit ; Our case that he to mind will call After our sad and great downfall , That we this comfort may attain , That a second Charles once more may Reign . He will us govern you shall see , In Love , and Peace , and Unity : And from all harms will us defend , 'Gainst all that with us do contend . Each others love then we shall gain , When that a second Charles does Reign He shall our King and Shepherd be , And led us to felicity : To us he will example give Even all the days that he does live . And peacefully he will us guide Unto those streams that sweetly glide . And he will us so with love inure , And cause us for to be secure From all our foreign enemies , And all Assaults and Batteries . He will our Rightful Cause maintain , When that in England he does Reign . Light out of darkness is now display'd , Which was before in darkness laid ; True Oracles shall never fail . For miracles to make men quail : Charles shall his Father's right attain Over these Nations for to Reign . And shall be seated upon his Throne , Where many years there hath been none Which is upheld with pillars four , Justice , and Truth , Mercy , and Power Earthly perfection we then shall gain , When that a second Charles does Reign . The second Part , to the same Tune . THen shall we hear sweet harmony , Without him there's no melody : He is sweeter to fair Englands mind , Then any meat that she can find . She does desire him to attain And have a second Charles again . He's our Physician , he can ease Our minds , and cure our disease , And heal our drooping heavy hearts ; And also cure our outward smarts . And Englands peace he will maintain When that a second Charles does Reign Although our foes at us let fly , And us assault with battery , He will discomfit them we know , By earthly powers here below : Of foreign Nations we love shall gain , When that a second Charles does Reign . Charles is Englands resplendant Sun , For want of whom we are undone : We ruled have been by tyranny And seduced long by subtlety : Now all our longings are in vain , Except a second Charles do Reign . Charles show to us thy Rosy face , With gentle offers of thy grace ; With reverence we will all admire Thy graces which we all desire : Let all men palms and laurel bring , For to Crown Charles our gracious King . Our sorrows then thou shalt subdue , And all our former joys renew ; Now lift us up with all thy strength , Let us enjoy sweet peace at length : Our hearts does in thy breast remain , And we desire that Charles may Reign . The Tyrant's dead that sought to spill The innocent and him to kill ; Do but return and save us now , And we will Crown thy lovely Brow With praise and prayers once again , When that in England thou dost Rei [ gn ] Great Charles for thee we all will pray , And for George Monck , both night and day , And for his Army great and small God bless and eke preserve them all : And for the Parliament again , That Charles the second he may Reign . FINIS . J.W. London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . ( 1 ) OUr Age strange things hath brought to light , OUr Age strange things hath brought to light , And time hath chased away the night ; Now does our Sun his beams display And shows to us a lightsome day . England cheer up , do not repine , A second Charles his Sun shall shine . Black and dark was our morning Star , As darksome night or far blacker , A woeful change did so increase Within our little universe : England cheer up , do not repine A second Charles his Sun shall shine . But now our bright morning does arise And golden hope's does paint our skies , Which in our hearts does comfort breed Because in heaven it is decreed : All sorrows let us now refrain A second Charles once more shall Reign . And let us now ourselves commit , To him that does in Heaven fit ; Our case that he to mind will call After our sad and great downfall , That we this comfort may attain , That a second Charles once more may Reign . He will us govern you shall see , In Love , and Peace , and Unity : And from all harms will us defend , 'Gainst all that with us do contend . Each others love then we shall gain , When that a second Charles does Reign He shall our King and Shepherd be , And led us to felicity : To us he will example give Even all the days that he does live . And peacefully he will us guide Unto those streams that sweetly glide . And he will us so with love inure , And cause us for to be secure From all our foreign enemies , And all Assaults and Batteries . He will our Rightful Cause maintain , When that in England he does Reign . Light out of darkness is now display'd , Which was before in darkness laid ; True Oracles shall never fail . For miracles to make men quail : Charles shall his Father's right attain Over these Nations for to Reign . And shall be seated upon his Throne , Where many years there hath been none Which is upheld with pillars four , Justice , and Truth , Mercy , and Power Earthly perfection we then shall gain , When that a second Charles does Reign . The second Part , to the same Tune . THen shall we hear sweet harmony , Without him there's no melody : He is sweeter to fair Englands mind , Then any meat that she can find . She does desire him to attain And have a second Charles again . He's our Physician , he can ease Our minds , and cure our disease , And heal our drooping heavy hearts ; And also cure our outward smarts . And Englands peace he will maintain When that a second Charles does Reign Although our foes at us let fly , And us assault with battery , He will discomfit them we know , By earthly powers here below : Of foreign Nations we love shall gain , When that a second Charles does Reign . Charles is Englands resplendant Sun , For want of whom we are undone : We ruled have been by tyranny And seduced long by subtlety : Now all our longings are in vain , Except a second Charles do Reign . Charles show to us thy Rosy face , With gentle offers of thy grace ; With reverence we will all admire Thy graces which we all desire : Let all men palms and laurel bring , For to Crown Charles our gracious King . Our sorrows then thou shalt subdue , And all our former joys renew ; Now lift us up with all thy strength , Let us enjoy sweet peace at length : Our hearts does in thy breast remain , And we desire that Charles may Reign . The Tyrant's dead that sought to spill The innocent and him to kill ; Do but return and save us now , And we will Crown thy lovely Brow With praise and prayers once again , When that in England thou dost Rei [ gn ] Great Charles for thee we all will pray , And for George Monck , both night and day , And for his Army great and small God bless and eke preserve them all : And for the Parliament again , That Charles the second he may Reign . FINIS . J.W. London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . 