The poor men distress & trial ; Or , Fortune's Favours after her Frowns . Then in Distress and heaviness , The Rich does poor Men hate ; But when the poor hath plenty store , the Rich men love is great . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , N. P. A Poor man he lately did bury his wife , And soon he was brought into trouble and strife , He had a harsh Landlord to whom he ow'd rend , Quite void of all pity , to cruelty bent . This Landlord he came to the poor man one day , And with bitter language to him he did say : Let me have my Money next week without fail , Or else I'le assure you , you lie in a Jail . The poor man in pitiful terms did relate , Good Sir be not cruel , my grief it is great , I hope with more sorrow you won't me oppress , Behold my poor Children that are Motherless . I ne'r in my life was a Spendthrift you know : And therefore kind Sir , seek not my overthrow , To pay you your money i'le make it my care , If you for a while will but patiently bore . I must and I will have my money , says he , Or else I will go to the extremity , It is not your children or what you can say , That ever shall make me much longer to stay . And thus in a fury from him he did part , At which the poor man he was griev'd to the heart , While tears from his eyes did in multitudes fallen , Said he to his Children I must leave you all . With sorrowful sighing his heart wss near broke , His Children lamented as soon as he spoke , Dear Father don't leave us whatever you do , For we are all willing to suffer with you . In tender compassion , to them he reply'd , I am your dear Father , and still will provide For my little ones , who delights my mind , I cannot , nor never will leave you behind . A trusty true Friend he had lived hard by , To whom the next Morning in haste he did high ; Said he , I must now leave my Country dear , Because a cold Prison I heartily fear . My Brother is rich , and has no Heir at all , And if he should Die , then to me it may fallen ; I now will to London , though many a Mile , And there you may find me , if Fortune should smile . In Friendship they parted ; to London he went , With his little Children , and liv'd in content By his daily labour , quite free from all dread , At length there came tidings his Brother was dead . And made him and his the Sole heirs of his land , And therefore he straightway went down out of hand His harsh cruel Landlord he now need not fear , Since he is possessed with hundreds a year . But now when he came for to pay him at last , His Landlord was sorry for all that was passed , And told him he need not a wander'd away , I would not have done it , no , no by my faith . For those Children's sake I would not you molest . Whatever I said then I was but in jest , And therefore I hope you will not take it ill , But let us continue in true friendship still . The Tenants Reply . Of all kind of comfort you did me bereave , And therefore I have not a faith to believe , For when I was poor you looked sow're and big , And now for your friendship I care not a Fig. By this we perceive when the world it does frown Upon any person , all men runs them down . But yet when kind fortune a plenty shall I send , O then to be sure we shall ne'r want a friend . F [ I ] N [ I ] S. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The poor men distress & trial ; Or , Fortune's Favours after her Frowns . Then in Distress and heaviness , The Rich does poor Men hate ; But when the poor hath plenty store , the Rich men love is great . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , N. P. A Poor man he lately did bury his wife , And soon he was brought into trouble and strife , He had a harsh Landlord to whom he ow'd rend , Quite void of all pity , to cruelty bent . This Landlord he came to the poor man one day , And with bitter language to him he did say : Let me have my Money next week without fail , Or else I'le assure you , you lie in a Jail . The poor man in pitiful terms did relate , Good Sir be not cruel , my grief it is great , I hope with more sorrow you won't me oppress , Behold my poor Children that are Motherless . I ne'r in my life was a Spendthrift you know : And therefore kind Sir , seek not my overthrow , To pay you your money i'le make it my care , If you for a while will but patiently bore . I must and I will have my money , says he , Or else I will go to the extremity , It is not your children or what you can say , That ever shall make me much longer to stay . And thus in a fury from him he did part , At which the poor man he was griev'd to the heart , While tears from his eyes did in multitudes fallen , Said he to his Children I must leave you all . With sorrowful sighing his heart wss near broke , His Children lamented as soon as he spoke , Dear Father don't leave us whatever you do , For we are all willing to suffer with you . In tender compassion , to them he reply'd , I am your dear Father , and still will provide For my little ones , who delights my mind , I cannot , nor never will leave you behind . A trusty true Friend he had lived hard by , To whom the next Morning in haste he did high ; Said he , I must now leave my Country dear , Because a cold Prison I heartily fear . My Brother is rich , and has no Heir at all , And if he should Die , then to me it may fallen ; I now will to London , though many a Mile , And there you may find me , if Fortune should smile . In Friendship they parted ; to London he went , With his little Children , and liv'd in content By his daily labour , quite free from all dread , At length there came tidings his Brother was dead . And made him and his the Sole heirs of his land , And therefore he straightway went down out of hand His harsh cruel Landlord he now need not fear , Since he is possessed with hundreds a year . But now when he came for to pay him at last , His Landlord was sorry for all that was passed , And told him he need not a wander'd away , I would not have done it , no , no by my faith . For those Children's sake I would not you molest . Whatever I said then I was but in jest , And therefore I hope you will not take it ill , But let us continue in true friendship still . The Tenants Reply . Of all kind of comfort you did me bereave , And therefore I have not a faith to believe , For when I was poor you looked sow're and big , And now for your friendship I care not a Fig. By this we perceive when the world it does frown Upon any person , all men runs them down . But yet when kind fortune a plenty shall I send , O then to be sure we shall ne'r want a friend . F [ I ] N [ I ] S. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The poor men distress & trial ; Or , Fortune's Favours after her Frowns . Then in Distress and heaviness , The Rich does poor Men hate ; But when the poor hath plenty store , the Rich men love is great . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , N. P. A Poor man he lately did bury his wife , And soon he was brought into trouble and strife , He had a harsh Landlord to whom he ow'd rend , Quite void of all pity , to cruelty bent . This Landlord he came to the poor man one day , And with bitter language to him he did say : Let me have my Money next week without fail , Or else I'le assure you , you lie in a Jail . The poor man in pitiful terms did relate , Good Sir be not cruel , my grief it is great , I hope with more sorrow you won't me oppress , Behold my poor Children that are Motherless . I ne'r in my life was a Spendthrift you know : And therefore kind Sir , seek not my overthrow , To pay you your money i'le make it my care , If you for a while will but patiently bore . I must and I will have my money , says he , Or else I will go to the extremity , It is not your children or what you can say , That ever shall make me much longer to stay . And thus in a fury from him he did part , At which the poor man he was griev'd to the heart , While tears from his eyes did in multitudes fallen , Said he to his Children I must leave you all . With sorrowful sighing his heart wss near broke , His Children lamented as soon as he spoke , Dear Father don't leave us whatever you do , For we are all willing to suffer with you . In tender compassion , to them he reply'd , I am your dear Father , and still will provide For my little ones , who delights my mind , I cannot , nor never will leave you behind . A trusty true Friend he had lived hard by , To whom the next Morning in haste he did high ; Said he , I must now leave my Country dear , Because a cold Prison I heartily fear . My Brother is rich , and has no Heir at all , And if he should Die , then to me it may fallen ; I now will to London , though many a Mile , And there you may find me , if Fortune should smile . In Friendship they parted ; to London he went , With his little Children , and liv'd in content By his daily labour , quite free from all dread , At length there came tidings his Brother was dead . And made him and his the Sole heirs of his land , And therefore he straightway went down out of hand His harsh cruel Landlord he now need not fear , Since he is possessed with hundreds a year . But now when he came for to pay him at last , His Landlord was sorry for all that was passed , And told him he need not a wander'd away , I would not have done it , no , no by my faith . For those Children's sake I would not you molest . Whatever I said then I was but in jest , And therefore I hope you will not take it ill , But let us continue in true friendship still . The Tenants Reply . Of all kind of comfort you did me bereave , And therefore I have not a faith to believe , For when I was poor you looked sow're and big , And now for your friendship I care not a Fig. By this we perceive when the world it does frown Upon any person , all men runs them down . But yet when kind fortune a plenty shall I send , O then to be sure we shall ne'r want a friend . F [ I ] N [ I ] S. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The poor men distress & trial ; Or , Fortune's Favours after her Frowns . Then in Distress and heaviness , The Rich does poor Men hate ; But when the poor hath plenty store , the Rich men love is great . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , N. P. A Poor man he lately did bury his wife , And soon he was brought into trouble and strife , He had a harsh Landlord to whom he ow'd rend , Quite void of all pity , to cruelty bent . This Landlord he came to the poor man one day , And with bitter language to him he did say : Let me have my Money next week without fail , Or else I'le assure you , you lie in a Jail . The poor man in pitiful terms did relate , Good Sir be not cruel , my grief it is great , I hope with more sorrow you won't me oppress , Behold my poor Children that are Motherless . I ne'r in my life was a Spendthrift you know : And therefore kind Sir , seek not my overthrow , To pay you your money i'le make it my care , If you for a while will but patiently bore . I must and I will have my money , says he , Or else I will go to the extremity , It is not your children or what you can say , That ever shall make me much longer to stay . And thus in a fury from him he did part , At which the poor man he was griev'd to the heart , While tears from his eyes did in multitudes fallen , Said he to his Children I must leave you all . With sorrowful sighing his heart wss near broke , His Children lamented as soon as he spoke , Dear Father don't leave us whatever you do , For we are all willing to suffer with you . In tender compassion , to them he reply'd , I am your dear Father , and still will provide For my little ones , who delights my mind , I cannot , nor never will leave you behind . A trusty true Friend he had lived hard by , To whom the next Morning in haste he did high ; Said he , I must now leave my Country dear , Because a cold Prison I heartily fear . My Brother is rich , and has no Heir at all , And if he should Die , then to me it may fallen ; I now will to London , though many a Mile , And there you may find me , if Fortune should smile . In Friendship they parted ; to London he went , With his little Children , and liv'd in content By his daily labour , quite free from all dread , At length there came tidings his Brother was dead . And made him and his the Sole heirs of his land , And therefore he straightway went down out of hand His harsh cruel Landlord he now need not fear , Since he is possessed with hundreds a year . But now when he came for to pay him at last , His Landlord was sorry for all that was passed , And told him he need not a wander'd away , I would not have done it , no , no by my faith . For those Children's sake I would not you molest . Whatever I said then I was but in jest , And therefore I hope you will not take it ill , But let us continue in true friendship still . The Tenants Reply . Of all kind of comfort you did me bereave , And therefore I have not a faith to believe , For when I was poor you looked sow're and big , And now for your friendship I care not a Fig. By this we perceive when the world it does frown Upon any person , all men runs them down . But yet when kind fortune a plenty shall I send , O then to be sure we shall ne'r want a friend . F [ I ] N [ I ] S. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 