The Dorsetshire Lovers : OR , THE Honest innocent Wooing between John the Farmer and his Sweetheart Joan , as they happen'd to meet one Morning in the midst of a green Meadow . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . Licens'd according to Order . PAssing through a Meadow , young John did Joany meet , Like the youthful Queen of May in her Summer's Robes complete , With a Congue to the ground , he reply'd , Since I have found So fit a season , 'tis but reason our Comforts should be crown'd , Long I have lov'd thee I must confess . But ne'r could find a time , Love , my kindness to express , For sure it is well known , my Heart is thine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. John I fear you flatter as many more has done , For young Bachelors we see after many Damsels run , I by true experience find , that they waver with the Wind , New change of Faces and Embraces pleases best their Mind , Therefore I pray you now let me go ; But Johnny he reply'd , I will never serve thee so , For sure it is well known , my Heart is thine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. Love thou shalt be Marry'd , and be a virtuous Bride , And I'll give thee Gloves and Rings with twenty things beside , For the pleasures of the night , shall my dearest Love delight , Then fit down by me , don't deny me , for thy Beauty bright I do admire and ever shall , Till now I ne'r beheld one so proper , straight and tall , Since we are here alone , the truth I will make known , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. If you will believe me , intruth , I am too young , Therefore tempt me now no more with your deluding Tongue ; Oh your kissing , John , forbear , lest you draw me in a snare , Your talk of Wedding and of Beding makes me blush , I swear , What if my Mother should chance to know , That in the silent Mead I was kiss'd and courted so ? Quoth Johnny , It is all one , to her I'd make it known , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. John , why will you Marry now while the Times are hard , Should we be poor and needy , pray , whom will us regard ? We must think upon that state , now before it is too late , For should we Marry , and Miscarry , then will our Grief be great , Therefore I'd have you yet longer stay ; But Johnny he reply'd , He wou'd Wed without delay , Quoth he , It is well known , my Heart is thine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. Never fear to venture , or in the least be sad , For my Grandsir dy'd of late and left me all he had , There's a Farm , which now I keep , with a heard and flock of Sheep , With other Treasure out of measure , thou shalt Comforts reap , For I'll maintain thee gallant and gay , Therefore , my Dearest , now let's appoint our Wedding-day , To join our Hearts in one , for thou art mine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. Thou shalt mind the Dairy , and I the happy Farm , I will keep thee Men and Maids , I hope that is no harm , Thou shalt feed on roast and bo [ i ] l'd , and I'll get my Dear with Child , Which will be Pleasure out of mea [ s ] ure . Joan at this she smil'd , For she delighted in living well , Therefore , said she , Sweet John , now the naked truth to tell , If you'll be mine alone , and join our Hearts in one , I'll never , never , sever , sever , but be thy sweet Joan. There is none I honour above my true Love John , On my Conscience , thou wilt prove a right honest Man ; We'll be Marry'd , let me see , about Thursday next , that we Without delaying , foolish staying never pleases me , Now I admire the charming Bliss ; Then Johnny he reply'd , with a tender loving kiss , 'Tis thee I love alone , our Hearts we'll join in one , And never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. London : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . The Dorsetshire Lovers : OR , THE Honest innocent Wooing between John the Farmer and his Sweetheart Joan , as they happen'd to meet one Morning in the midst of a green Meadow . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . Licens'd according to Order . PAssing through a Meadow , young John did Joany meet , Like the youthful Queen of May in her Summer's Robes complete , With a Congue to the ground , he reply'd , Since I have found So fit a season , 'tis but reason our Comforts should be crown'd , Long I have lov'd thee I must confess . But ne'r could find a time , Love , my kindness to express , For sure it is well known , my Heart is thine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. John I fear you flatter as many more has done , For young Bachelors we see after many Damsels run , I by true experience find , that they waver with the Wind , New change of Faces and Embraces pleases best their Mind , Therefore I pray you now let me go ; But Johnny he reply'd , I will never serve thee so , For sure it is well known , my Heart is thine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. Love thou shalt be Marry'd , and be a virtuous Bride , And I'll give thee Gloves and Rings with twenty things beside , For the pleasures of the night , shall my dearest Love delight , Then fit down by me , don't deny me , for thy Beauty bright I do admire and ever shall , Till now I ne'r beheld one so proper , straight and tall , Since we are here alone , the truth I will make known , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. If you will believe me , intruth , I am too young , Therefore tempt me now no more with your deluding Tongue ; Oh your kissing , John , forbear , lest you draw me in a snare , Your talk of Wedding and of Beding makes me blush , I swear , What if my Mother should chance to know , That in the silent Mead I was kiss'd and courted so ? Quoth Johnny , It is all one , to her I'd make it known , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. John , why will you Marry now while the Times are hard , Should we be poor and needy , pray , whom will us regard ? We must think upon that state , now before it is too late , For should we Marry , and Miscarry , then will our Grief be great , Therefore I'd have you yet longer stay ; But Johnny he reply'd , He wou'd Wed without delay , Quoth he , It is well known , my Heart is thine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. Never fear to venture , or in the least be sad , For my Grandsir dy'd of late and left me all he had , There's a Farm , which now I keep , with a heard and flock of Sheep , With other Treasure out of measure , thou shalt Comforts reap , For I'll maintain thee gallant and gay , Therefore , my Dearest , now let's appoint our Wedding-day , To join our Hearts in one , for thou art mine alone , I'll never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. Thou shalt mind the Dairy , and I the happy Farm , I will keep thee Men and Maids , I hope that is no harm , Thou shalt feed on roast and bo [ i ] l'd , and I'll get my Dear with Child , Which will be Pleasure out of mea [ s ] ure . Joan at this she smil'd , For she delighted in living well , Therefore , said she , Sweet John , now the naked truth to tell , If you'll be mine alone , and join our Hearts in one , I'll never , never , sever , sever , but be thy sweet Joan. There is none I honour above my true Love John , On my Conscience , thou wilt prove a right honest Man ; We'll be Marry'd , let me see , about Thursday next , that we Without delaying , foolish staying never pleases me , Now I admire the charming Bliss ; Then Johnny he reply'd , with a tender loving kiss , 'Tis thee I love alone , our Hearts we'll join in one , And never , never , sever , sever from my loving Joan. London : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . 