The Easter WEDDING ; OR , The Bridegrooms Joy and Happiness Completed , in his kind and Con - stant Bride . Here may we see true Loyalty , the Quintessence of Love ; Since he did find , his Dear so kind , let him most tender prove . Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R.P. PRay now attend to this Ditty , which I in brief will declare ; Not very far from this City , there was a Wedding we hear : In mighty Triumph attended , sorrow they clearly destroy , Therefore let none be offended , tho' I shall speak of their joy . Fortune we know once did lower , on this young Bridegroom we see , But now his Joys are in power , since he is happy and free : They now no longer wou'd tarry , seeing they happily meet , But were resolved to Marry , making their Blessings complete . Now for to speak of the Glory , which did in Splendour appear , I will be brief in the Story , therefore I pray now give ear : As they were walking together , both to be joined in one , Thousands and thousands came thither by which their kindness was shown . Many young Damsels attir'd , all in their Sarsenet white , Ev'ry one seeing admir'd , while they beholding the sighed , In love they held it their Duty , to be both Gallant and Gay , Thus they appeared in Beauty , like the fair Flowers in May . Maids they in Night-Trayls did flourish as they attended the Train , This loving Couple to cherish , home they returned again : This was a notable Wedding , where there did plenty abound , Many came thither unbidden ; from every Village all round . There was but a few that were able , but did come in for a share ; Thus a most plentiful Table , did to all persons appear : Feasting and filling the Glasses , Bacchus did flow like a Spring , And the Young Lads and the Lasses drank a good Health to the King . Then did the Music for Dancing play , and went merrily on , Simon with Susan advancing , so did young Robin and Nan ; Richard resolved at leisure , to take a turn with the Bride , This was a day of much pleasure , may they have many beside . When the long day it was ended , she to her Chamber was led , By the young Maids that attended , when they beheld them in Bed : Then at the length they did leave them , with those kind Wishes at last , That Sorrow never may grieve them , now all their Troubles are passed . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The Easter WEDDING ; OR , The Bridegrooms Joy and Happiness Completed , in his kind and Con - stant Bride . Here may we see true Loyalty , the Quintessence of Love ; Since he did find , his Dear so kind , let him most tender prove . Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R.P. PRay now attend to this Ditty , which I in brief will declare ; Not very far from this City , there was a Wedding we hear : In mighty Triumph attended , sorrow they clearly destroy , Therefore let none be offended , tho' I shall speak of their joy . Fortune we know once did lower , on this young Bridegroom we see , But now his Joys are in power , since he is happy and free : They now no longer wou'd tarry , seeing they happily meet , But were resolved to Marry , making their Blessings complete . Now for to speak of the Glory , which did in Splendour appear , I will be brief in the Story , therefore I pray now give ear : As they were walking together , both to be joined in one , Thousands and thousands came thither by which their kindness was shown . Many young Damsels attir'd , all in their Sarsenet white , Ev'ry one seeing admir'd , while they beholding the sighed , In love they held it their Duty , to be both Gallant and Gay , Thus they appeared in Beauty , like the fair Flowers in May . Maids they in Night-Trayls did flourish as they attended the Train , This loving Couple to cherish , home they returned again : This was a notable Wedding , where there did plenty abound , Many came thither unbidden ; from every Village all round . There was but a few that were able , but did come in for a share ; Thus a most plentiful Table , did to all persons appear : Feasting and filling the Glasses , Bacchus did flow like a Spring , And the Young Lads and the Lasses drank a good Health to the King . Then did the Music for Dancing play , and went merrily on , Simon with Susan advancing , so did young Robin and Nan ; Richard resolved at leisure , to take a turn with the Bride , This was a day of much pleasure , may they have many beside . When the long day it was ended , she to her Chamber was led , By the young Maids that attended , when they beheld them in Bed : Then at the length they did leave them , with those kind Wishes at last , That Sorrow never may grieve them , now all their Troubles are passed . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The Easter WEDDING ; OR , The Bridegrooms Joy and Happiness Completed , in his kind and Con - stant Bride . Here may we see true Loyalty , the Quintessence of Love ; Since he did find , his Dear so kind , let him most tender prove . Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R.P. PRay now attend to this Ditty , which I in brief will declare ; Not very far from this City , there was a Wedding we hear : In mighty Triumph attended , sorrow they clearly destroy , Therefore let none be offended , tho' I shall speak of their joy . Fortune we know once did lower , on this young Bridegroom we see , But now his Joys are in power , since he is happy and free : They now no longer wou'd tarry , seeing they happily meet , But were resolved to Marry , making their Blessings complete . Now for to speak of the Glory , which did in Splendour appear , I will be brief in the Story , therefore I pray now give ear : As they were walking together , both to be joined in one , Thousands and thousands came thither by which their kindness was shown . Many young Damsels attir'd , all in their Sarsenet white , Ev'ry one seeing admir'd , while they beholding the sighed , In love they held it their Duty , to be both Gallant and Gay , Thus they appeared in Beauty , like the fair Flowers in May . Maids they in Night-Trayls did flourish as they attended the Train , This loving Couple to cherish , home they returned again : This was a notable Wedding , where there did plenty abound , Many came thither unbidden ; from every Village all round . There was but a few that were able , but did come in for a share ; Thus a most plentiful Table , did to all persons appear : Feasting and filling the Glasses , Bacchus did flow like a Spring , And the Young Lads and the Lasses drank a good Health to the King . Then did the Music for Dancing play , and went merrily on , Simon with Susan advancing , so did young Robin and Nan ; Richard resolved at leisure , to take a turn with the Bride , This was a day of much pleasure , may they have many beside . When the long day it was ended , she to her Chamber was led , By the young Maids that attended , when they beheld them in Bed : Then at the length they did leave them , with those kind Wishes at last , That Sorrow never may grieve them , now all their Troubles are passed . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The Easter WEDDING ; OR , The Bridegrooms Joy and Happiness Completed , in his kind and Con - stant Bride . Here may we see true Loyalty , the Quintessence of Love ; Since he did find , his Dear so kind , let him most tender prove . Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R.P. PRay now attend to this Ditty , which I in brief will declare ; Not very far from this City , there was a Wedding we hear : In mighty Triumph attended , sorrow they clearly destroy , Therefore let none be offended , tho' I shall speak of their joy . Fortune we know once did lower , on this young Bridegroom we see , But now his Joys are in power , since he is happy and free : They now no longer wou'd tarry , seeing they happily meet , But were resolved to Marry , making their Blessings complete . Now for to speak of the Glory , which did in Splendour appear , I will be brief in the Story , therefore I pray now give ear : As they were walking together , both to be joined in one , Thousands and thousands came thither by which their kindness was shown . Many young Damsels attir'd , all in their Sarsenet white , Ev'ry one seeing admir'd , while they beholding the sighed , In love they held it their Duty , to be both Gallant and Gay , Thus they appeared in Beauty , like the fair Flowers in May . Maids they in Night-Trayls did flourish as they attended the Train , This loving Couple to cherish , home they returned again : This was a notable Wedding , where there did plenty abound , Many came thither unbidden ; from every Village all round . There was but a few that were able , but did come in for a share ; Thus a most plentiful Table , did to all persons appear : Feasting and filling the Glasses , Bacchus did flow like a Spring , And the Young Lads and the Lasses drank a good Health to the King . Then did the Music for Dancing play , and went merrily on , Simon with Susan advancing , so did young Robin and Nan ; Richard resolved at leisure , to take a turn with the Bride , This was a day of much pleasure , may they have many beside . When the long day it was ended , she to her Chamber was led , By the young Maids that attended , when they beheld them in Bed : Then at the length they did leave them , with those kind Wishes at last , That Sorrow never may grieve them , now all their Troubles are passed . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 