The West-Country Frolic : OR , Buxom Kate's Merry Intrigue . SHOWING How she serv'd ROBIN , the Fainthearted Miller , who was afraid to Encounter with her Maidenhead . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Or , Love's a sweet passion , etc PRay did not you here of young frolicsome Kate ? How she served stout Robin the Miller of late ; When the cares of the World had incumber'd his crown , She did first haul him up and then tumbl'd him down : Now believe me , I think he was serv'd in his kind , Since he would not endeavour to please a Maid's mind . A twelvemonth he courted this beautiful Maid , Yet unwilling to Marry , as being afraid That his charge would come on , while Provision was dear , Thus he often would whisper this word in her ear : But the Damsel was Buxsom , and long'd to be wed , Being clearly a weary of her Maidenhead . He often would come to this Damsel at Night , Where he'd call her his Jewel his Joy and Delight ; Or , perhaps a soft Kiss or a tender Embrace , But yet nevertheless we might pity her case : Kisses did no more kindness according to Law , Then as if he had tickl'd her Tail with a Straw . At length Kate begun for to think with herself , He might happen to be some poor fumbling Elf , That has no precious Nutmegs to please a young Bride , And if so , I am utterly ruin'd she cry'd ; But I first mean to try him , and if bad's his Gear , I'd not have him , if he had ten Thousand a Year . Next Night when he came , she said , Robin my love , Thou shalt go up with me to my Chamber above , Where all Night in my Arms thou shalt lovingly lie : Honest Robin , he made her this modest reply , As we go up the stairs , if thy Mistress should hear , I'm afraid it will bring a disgrace on my Dear . Oh! never be daunted nor take any care , On my back to my Chamber my Dearest I'll bear , So as she shall not hear thee , but think it 'tis I ; To this pleasant new Project he strait did comply : And immediately she took him then on her back , Where he lay on her rump like a Pedler's pack . She carry'd him up to her Chamber that Night , Where she reckon'd to reap all the Joys of Delight ; But as soon as he came to the side of her Bed , Oh! the Cares of the World strait run in his Head : Kate , he cry'd , I'm afraid I shall get thee with Child , Then the Cares of the World they would make me run Wild . Nay Robin , if you are Fainthearted , said she , I must tell you in short you are no Man for me ; I admire a Spark that no Colours will fear , But I find you stand quaking and trembling here : Strait she bid him be gone , aye , and gave him a frown . But he cry'd , Pretty Kate , How shall I get down . Quoth she , if your fearful , I make no great doubt But as I brought you in , I can carry you out ; She immediately took him once more on her back Aye , and through him down Stairs till she made his Bones crack : Now the Lumbering frighted her Mistress so That she cry'd out there's Thieves in the Kitchen below . prey never be frighted , sweet Mistress , she said , For as I am honest and diligent Maid , It was none but a lubberly bundle of Cares Of a troublesome World , which I tumbl'd down Stairs : Then the Miller she straightway did kick out of door , And he ne'er had the Courage to come there no more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The West-Country Frolic : OR , Buxom Kate's Merry Intrigue . SHOWING How she serv'd ROBIN , the Fainthearted Miller , who was afraid to Encounter with her Maidenhead . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Or , Love's a sweet passion , etc PRay did not you here of young frolicsome Kate ? How she served stout Robin the Miller of late ; When the cares of the World had incumber'd his crown , She did first haul him up and then tumbl'd him down : Now believe me , I think he was serv'd in his kind , Since he would not endeavour to please a Maid's mind . A twelvemonth he courted this beautiful Maid , Yet unwilling to Marry , as being afraid That his charge would come on , while Provision was dear , Thus he often would whisper this word in her ear : But the Damsel was Buxsom , and long'd to be wed , Being clearly a weary of her Maidenhead . He often would come to this Damsel at Night , Where he'd call her his Jewel his Joy and Delight ; Or , perhaps a soft Kiss or a tender Embrace , But yet nevertheless we might pity her case : Kisses did no more kindness according to Law , Then as if he had tickl'd her Tail with a Straw . At length Kate begun for to think with herself , He might happen to be some poor fumbling Elf , That has no precious Nutmegs to please a young Bride , And if so , I am utterly ruin'd she cry'd ; But I first mean to try him , and if bad's his Gear , I'd not have him , if he had ten Thousand a Year . Next Night when he came , she said , Robin my love , Thou shalt go up with me to my Chamber above , Where all Night in my Arms thou shalt lovingly lie : Honest Robin , he made her this modest reply , As we go up the stairs , if thy Mistress should hear , I'm afraid it will bring a disgrace on my Dear . Oh! never be daunted nor take any care , On my back to my Chamber my Dearest I'll bear , So as she shall not hear thee , but think it 'tis I ; To this pleasant new Project he strait did comply : And immediately she took him then on her back , Where he lay on her rump like a Pedler's pack . She carry'd him up to her Chamber that Night , Where she reckon'd to reap all the Joys of Delight ; But as soon as he came to the side of her Bed , Oh! the Cares of the World strait run in his Head : Kate , he cry'd , I'm afraid I shall get thee with Child , Then the Cares of the World they would make me run Wild . Nay Robin , if you are Fainthearted , said she , I must tell you in short you are no Man for me ; I admire a Spark that no Colours will fear , But I find you stand quaking and trembling here : Strait she bid him be gone , aye , and gave him a frown . But he cry'd , Pretty Kate , How shall I get down . Quoth she , if your fearful , I make no great doubt But as I brought you in , I can carry you out ; She immediately took him once more on her back Aye , and through him down Stairs till she made his Bones crack : Now the Lumbering frighted her Mistress so That she cry'd out there's Thieves in the Kitchen below . prey never be frighted , sweet Mistress , she said , For as I am honest and diligent Maid , It was none but a lubberly bundle of Cares Of a troublesome World , which I tumbl'd down Stairs : Then the Miller she straightway did kick out of door , And he ne'er had the Courage to come there no more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The West-Country Frolic : OR , Buxom Kate's Merry Intrigue . SHOWING How she serv'd ROBIN , the Fainthearted Miller , who was afraid to Encounter with her Maidenhead . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Or , Love's a sweet passion , etc PRay did not you here of young frolicsome Kate ? How she served stout Robin the Miller of late ; When the cares of the World had incumber'd his crown , She did first haul him up and then tumbl'd him down : Now believe me , I think he was serv'd in his kind , Since he would not endeavour to please a Maid's mind . A twelvemonth he courted this beautiful Maid , Yet unwilling to Marry , as being afraid That his charge would come on , while Provision was dear , Thus he often would whisper this word in her ear : But the Damsel was Buxsom , and long'd to be wed , Being clearly a weary of her Maidenhead . He often would come to this Damsel at Night , Where he'd call her his Jewel his Joy and Delight ; Or , perhaps a soft Kiss or a tender Embrace , But yet nevertheless we might pity her case : Kisses did no more kindness according to Law , Then as if he had tickl'd her Tail with a Straw . At length Kate begun for to think with herself , He might happen to be some poor fumbling Elf , That has no precious Nutmegs to please a young Bride , And if so , I am utterly ruin'd she cry'd ; But I first mean to try him , and if bad's his Gear , I'd not have him , if he had ten Thousand a Year . Next Night when he came , she said , Robin my love , Thou shalt go up with me to my Chamber above , Where all Night in my Arms thou shalt lovingly lie : Honest Robin , he made her this modest reply , As we go up the stairs , if thy Mistress should hear , I'm afraid it will bring a disgrace on my Dear . Oh! never be daunted nor take any care , On my back to my Chamber my Dearest I'll bear , So as she shall not hear thee , but think it 'tis I ; To this pleasant new Project he strait did comply : And immediately she took him then on her back , Where he lay on her rump like a Pedler's pack . She carry'd him up to her Chamber that Night , Where she reckon'd to reap all the Joys of Delight ; But as soon as he came to the side of her Bed , Oh! the Cares of the World strait run in his Head : Kate , he cry'd , I'm afraid I shall get thee with Child , Then the Cares of the World they would make me run Wild . Nay Robin , if you are Fainthearted , said she , I must tell you in short you are no Man for me ; I admire a Spark that no Colours will fear , But I find you stand quaking and trembling here : Strait she bid him be gone , aye , and gave him a frown . But he cry'd , Pretty Kate , How shall I get down . Quoth she , if your fearful , I make no great doubt But as I brought you in , I can carry you out ; She immediately took him once more on her back Aye , and through him down Stairs till she made his Bones crack : Now the Lumbering frighted her Mistress so That she cry'd out there's Thieves in the Kitchen below . prey never be frighted , sweet Mistress , she said , For as I am honest and diligent Maid , It was none but a lubberly bundle of Cares Of a troublesome World , which I tumbl'd down Stairs : Then the Miller she straightway did kick out of door , And he ne'er had the Courage to come there no more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The West-Country Frolic : OR , Buxom Kate's Merry Intrigue . SHOWING How she serv'd ROBIN , the Fainthearted Miller , who was afraid to Encounter with her Maidenhead . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Or , Love's a sweet passion , etc PRay did not you here of young frolicsome Kate ? How she served stout Robin the Miller of late ; When the cares of the World had incumber'd his crown , She did first haul him up and then tumbl'd him down : Now believe me , I think he was serv'd in his kind , Since he would not endeavour to please a Maid's mind . A twelvemonth he courted this beautiful Maid , Yet unwilling to Marry , as being afraid That his charge would come on , while Provision was dear , Thus he often would whisper this word in her ear : But the Damsel was Buxsom , and long'd to be wed , Being clearly a weary of her Maidenhead . He often would come to this Damsel at Night , Where he'd call her his Jewel his Joy and Delight ; Or , perhaps a soft Kiss or a tender Embrace , But yet nevertheless we might pity her case : Kisses did no more kindness according to Law , Then as if he had tickl'd her Tail with a Straw . At length Kate begun for to think with herself , He might happen to be some poor fumbling Elf , That has no precious Nutmegs to please a young Bride , And if so , I am utterly ruin'd she cry'd ; But I first mean to try him , and if bad's his Gear , I'd not have him , if he had ten Thousand a Year . Next Night when he came , she said , Robin my love , Thou shalt go up with me to my Chamber above , Where all Night in my Arms thou shalt lovingly lie : Honest Robin , he made her this modest reply , As we go up the stairs , if thy Mistress should hear , I'm afraid it will bring a disgrace on my Dear . Oh! never be daunted nor take any care , On my back to my Chamber my Dearest I'll bear , So as she shall not hear thee , but think it 'tis I ; To this pleasant new Project he strait did comply : And immediately she took him then on her back , Where he lay on her rump like a Pedler's pack . She carry'd him up to her Chamber that Night , Where she reckon'd to reap all the Joys of Delight ; But as soon as he came to the side of her Bed , Oh! the Cares of the World strait run in his Head : Kate , he cry'd , I'm afraid I shall get thee with Child , Then the Cares of the World they would make me run Wild . Nay Robin , if you are Fainthearted , said she , I must tell you in short you are no Man for me ; I admire a Spark that no Colours will fear , But I find you stand quaking and trembling here : Strait she bid him be gone , aye , and gave him a frown . But he cry'd , Pretty Kate , How shall I get down . Quoth she , if your fearful , I make no great doubt But as I brought you in , I can carry you out ; She immediately took him once more on her back Aye , and through him down Stairs till she made his Bones crack : Now the Lumbering frighted her Mistress so That she cry'd out there's Thieves in the Kitchen below . prey never be frighted , sweet Mistress , she said , For as I am honest and diligent Maid , It was none but a lubberly bundle of Cares Of a troublesome World , which I tumbl'd down Stairs : Then the Miller she straightway did kick out of door , And he ne'er had the Courage to come there no more . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 