A Tragical BALLAD ; Or , The Unfortunate Love of Lord Thomas and fair Ellinor With the Downfall of the Brown Girl , LORD Thomas he was a bold Forester , And a Ckaser of the King's Deer Fair Ellinor she was a fair Woman And Lord Thomas he loved her dear Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother he said And riddle us both as one ; Whither I shall marry with fair Ellinor , And let the Brown Girl alone . The Brown Girl she has god Houses and Lands And fair Ellinor she has god none ; Therefore I charge You on my Blessing To bring me the Brown Girl home . And as it befell on a high Holiday , As many did more beside ; Lord Thomas he went to fair Ellinor , That shou'd have been his Bride . But when he came to fair Ellinor's Bower , He knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as fair Ellinor , For to let Lord Thomas in . What News , what News , Lord Thomas she said What News hast thou brought unto me I am come to bid thee to my Wedding And that is bad News for thee . O God forbid , Lord Thomas she said , That such a thing shou'd be done ; I thought to have been the Bride my ownself And You to have been the Bridegroom Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother she said , And riddle it all in one ; Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas's Wedding , Or whither I shall tarry at home Tkere's many that are Your Friends Daughter , And many that are Your Foe ; Therefore I charge You on my Blessing To Lord Thomas's Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends Mother If a thousand more were my Foe ; Betide my Life , betide my Death , To Lord Thomas's Wedding I'll go . She clothed herself in gallant Attire , And her merry Men all in Green ; And as they rid through every Town , They took her to have been a Queen . But when she came to Lord Thomas's Gate , she knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as Lord Thomas To let fair Ellinor in . [ I ] s this Your Bride fair Ellinor said , Methinks she looks wondered won ; [ Y ] ou might have had as fair a Woman , As ever trod on the Ground . Despise her not , fair Ellin he said Despise her not unto me ; For better I love thy Little Finger , Than all her whole Body . This Brown Bride had a Little Penknife That was both long and sharp ; And betwixt the shors Ribs and the long Pricked fair Ellinor to the Heart O Christ now save thee , Lord Thomas he said Methinks thou look'st wondrous wan ; Thou us'd for to look with as fresh a Colour As ever the Sun shin'd on Oh art thou blind , Lord Thomas , she said , Or can'st thou not very well see ; Or dost thou not see my own Hearts Blood Run trickling down my Knee . Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his side , A [ s ] he walked about the Hall , H [ e ] cut off his Brides Head from her Shoulders A [ and ] threw it against the Wall . He set the Hilt against the Ground , And the Point against his Heart , There was never three Lovers that ever met More sooner they did part . A Tragical BALLAD ; Or , The Unfortunate Love of Lord Thomas and fair Ellinor With the Downfall of the Brown Girl , LORD Thomas he was a bold Forester , And a Ckaser of the King's Deer Fair Ellinor she was a fair Woman And Lord Thomas he loved her dear Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother he said And riddle us both as one ; Whither I shall marry with fair Ellinor , And let the Brown Girl alone . The Brown Girl she has god Houses and Lands And fair Ellinor she has god none ; Therefore I charge You on my Blessing To bring me the Brown Girl home . And as it befell on a high Holiday , As many did more beside ; Lord Thomas he went to fair Ellinor , That shou'd have been his Bride . But when he came to fair Ellinor's Bower , He knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as fair Ellinor , For to let Lord Thomas in . What News , what News , Lord Thomas she said What News hast thou brought unto me I am come to bid thee to my Wedding And that is bad News for thee . O God forbid , Lord Thomas she said , That such a thing shou'd be done ; I thought to have been the Bride my ownself And You to have been the Bridegroom Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother she said , And riddle it all in one ; Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas's Wedding , Or whither I shall tarry at home Tkere's many that are Your Friends Daughter , And many that are Your Foe ; Therefore I charge You on my Blessing To Lord Thomas's Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends Mother If a thousand more were my Foe ; Betide my Life , betide my Death , To Lord Thomas's Wedding I'll go . She clothed herself in gallant Attire , And her merry Men all in Green ; And as they rid through every Town , They took her to have been a Queen . But when she came to Lord Thomas's Gate , she knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as Lord Thomas To let fair Ellinor in . [ I ] s this Your Bride fair Ellinor said , Methinks she looks wondered won ; [ Y ] ou might have had as fair a Woman , As ever trod on the Ground . Despise her not , fair Ellin he said Despise her not unto me ; For better I love thy Little Finger , Than all her whole Body . This Brown Bride had a Little Penknife That was both long and sharp ; And betwixt the shors Ribs and the long Pricked fair Ellinor to the Heart O Christ now save thee , Lord Thomas he said Methinks thou look'st wondrous wan ; Thou us'd for to look with as fresh a Colour As ever the Sun shin'd on Oh art thou blind , Lord Thomas , she said , Or can'st thou not very well see ; Or dost thou not see my own Hearts Blood Run trickling down my Knee . Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his side , A [ s ] he walked about the Hall , H [ e ] cut off his Brides Head from her Shoulders A [ and ] threw it against the Wall . He set the Hilt against the Ground , And the Point against his Heart , There was never three Lovers that ever met More sooner they did part . 