THE London Tailors Misfortune . OR , Cut-Beard-Harding chous'd by a Country Lass. Who he picked up in the street , and invited to the Tavern , where he intended to have left her in Pawn for the Reckoning , but he being soon drunk dropped asleep , at which opportunity she march'd off with a new suit of clothes which he was carrying home to a Gentleman ; Together with six - pence-half-penny-farthing , which is hop'd will be a warning to all Tailors how they meddle with Women as they walk the streets . To the Tune of , Four-pence-half-penny-Farthing . This may be Printed , R.P. A Damsel came to London Town , a Daughter to a Sailor , And she was in a Russet Gown , and meeting with a Taylor : This Taylor he was neat and fine , his name was Cut-beard Harding , And in his Pocket store of Coin , full sixpence halfpenny farthing . Near five a clock at candle light , the Taylor chanc'd to meet her , He gazing on her beauty bright . resolv'd he was to treat her : But one thing more you may denote of little Cut-beard Harding , Under his arms a Suit and Coat , with Six-pence-halfpenny-farthing . The which he then was carrying home unto a worthy Master As he along the streets did Rome , he met with this disaster ; Which now does make the Taylor rue , and eke repent his bargain , He lost his Clothes and money too , full-six-pence-half-penny-farthing . Now you that fain would understand , what prov'd the Tailors ruin It was the meeting with a Lass , as now these Lines are showing ; And perfectly declare to you , that near to Covent-Garden , He meeting there a Damsel fair , with six-pence-half-penny-farthing . At first she seemed something shy , and would not be Saluted , The Taylor he did still reply what need it be disputed ; Come let us drink a glass of Wine , quoth little Cut-beard-Harding , But at the length he did repent , for six-pence-half-penny-farthing . The Taylor he did then presume . to call for Sack and Sherry , And bid them show and upper Room , where they at length was merry But sorrow soon did overspread the mirth of Cut-beard-Harding , His Lass with his New Suit was fled . and six-pence-half-penny-farthing . The Taylor he was soon disguiz'd , to Sleep he fell a Snoring , His Lass then presently devis'd to fit him for his Who , king : She pick'd his pocket of his Coal , and took the clothes from Harding And down the Stairs away she stole , with Six-pence-half-penny-farthing . At length the Taylor did awake , and stair'd and look'd about him , But how he then his ears did shake , to see her gone without him : Straight from the Table then arose , poor little Cut-beard-Harding , And soon he missed his suit of Clothes , and Six-pence-half penny farthing . The Taylor then did stamp & stare , and likewise raps and thunders And from his head he tore his hair , his heart almost in sunder Was like to break , what course to take , alas poor Cut-beard-Harding , My suit he cry'd , and then reply'd , my Sixpence halfpenny farthing . The Taylor knew not what to do , the House must have their payment He left his Hat and Coat in lieu , and thus he stripped his Raymen Hence let not Tailors be high flown to go to Covent Garden , But let each wanton Miss alone , and think of Cut-beard-Harding . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-bridge . THE London Tailors Misfortune . OR , Cut-Beard-Harding chous'd by a Country Lass. Who he picked up in the street , and invited to the Tavern , where he intended to have left her in Pawn for the Reckoning , but he being soon drunk dropped asleep , at which opportunity she march'd off with a new suit of clothes which he was carrying home to a Gentleman ; Together with six - pence-half-penny-farthing , which is hop'd will be a warning to all Tailors how they meddle with Women as they walk the streets . To the Tune of , Four-pence-half-penny-Farthing . This may be Printed , R.P. A Damsel came to London Town , a Daughter to a Sailor , And she was in a Russet Gown , and meeting with a Taylor : This Taylor he was neat and fine , his name was Cut-beard Harding , And in his Pocket store of Coin , full sixpence halfpenny farthing . Near five a clock at candle light , the Taylor chanc'd to meet her , He gazing on her beauty bright . resolv'd he was to treat her : But one thing more you may denote of little Cut-beard Harding , Under his arms a Suit and Coat , with Six-pence-halfpenny-farthing . The which he then was carrying home unto a worthy Master As he along the streets did Rome , he met with this disaster ; Which now does make the Taylor rue , and eke repent his bargain , He lost his Clothes and money too , full-six-pence-half-penny-farthing . Now you that fain would understand , what prov'd the Tailors ruin It was the meeting with a Lass , as now these Lines are showing ; And perfectly declare to you , that near to Covent-Garden , He meeting there a Damsel fair , with six-pence-half-penny-farthing . At first she seemed something shy , and would not be Saluted , The Taylor he did still reply what need it be disputed ; Come let us drink a glass of Wine , quoth little Cut-beard-Harding , But at the length he did repent , for six-pence-half-penny-farthing . The Taylor he did then presume . to call for Sack and Sherry , And bid them show and upper Room , where they at length was merry But sorrow soon did overspread the mirth of Cut-beard-Harding , His Lass with his New Suit was fled . and six-pence-half-penny-farthing . The Taylor he was soon disguiz'd , to Sleep he fell a Snoring , His Lass then presently devis'd to fit him for his Who , king : She pick'd his pocket of his Coal , and took the clothes from Harding And down the Stairs away she stole , with Six-pence-half-penny-farthing . At length the Taylor did awake , and stair'd and look'd about him , But how he then his ears did shake , to see her gone without him : Straight from the Table then arose , poor little Cut-beard-Harding , And soon he missed his suit of Clothes , and Six-pence-half penny farthing . The Taylor then did stamp & stare , and likewise raps and thunders And from his head he tore his hair , his heart almost in sunder Was like to break , what course to take , alas poor Cut-beard-Harding , My suit he cry'd , and then reply'd , my Sixpence halfpenny farthing . The Taylor knew not what to do , the House must have their payment He left his Hat and Coat in lieu , and thus he stripped his Raymen Hence let not Tailors be high flown to go to Covent Garden , But let each wanton Miss alone , and think of Cut-beard-Harding . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-bridge . 