THE Unchangeable Lovers , No stormy winds can fright the seaman bold Nor can his mind be easily controlled , His love is settled , ne'r to change his mind While Amarillis voweth to be kind . Tune , Cloris awake . DEar Comfort I must , though it grieves me to go , To leave thee behind me breeds sorrow and woe , But the greatest of Storms shall ne'r cause me to fear , For isle cheer up my heart with the thoughts of my dear . When the winds they do blow and the Billows do roar , If I call but to mind My dear Love on the Shore My heart will rejoice , and isle banish all fear , In hope's to return to my love and my dear . Then be but as Loyal as isle be to thee , And nothing but death shall e're part thee and me , If women like Angels to me should appear , Yet still isle be true to my Love and my Dear . This true that we Sailors strange wonders do see , And strangers oft kind to the English will be , But the beauty's of Venice can never come near Thy feature , my Darling my Love and my dear . Believe what I say my hearts chiefest delight That think on thee still both by day and by night . For at home and abroad it shall always appear , That I will be true to my love and my dear . The Maidens Answer . I hear my true love this most sorrowful news , Which makes me lament , alas , how can I choose . The Seas I do fear will my comforts destroy , And rob me at last of my comfort and joy . Oh! when thou art absent what joy can I find , Or what can give ease to my troubled mind , E'ry wind that does blow will my pleasures destroy , For fear I should loose my delight and my joy . Go thou but to Venice thou never shalt find A lover so true , or so faithful and kind . Though at first I did seem to be childish and coy , Thou now art my comfort , my love and my joy . Then never forsake me for profit or gain , Nor leave thy true love for the wealth of the main . A jewel to love is and absolute Toy , Then never forsake me my love and my joy . But if thou wilt go to the Seas that do rage , Give me but thy promise , and firmly engage , Then isle wait thy return , nothing shall me annoy , But I constant will prove to my comfort and joy , Such Loyalty never by any was shown As isle show to thee , for I love thee alone , When we once are fastty'd isle applaud the blind Boy , That taught me to love thee my comfort and joy . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Rave [ n ] in Duck-lane . THE Unchangeable Lovers , No stormy winds can fright the seaman bold Nor can his mind be easily controlled , His love is settled , ne'r to change his mind While Amarillis voweth to be kind . Tune , Cloris awake . DEar Comfort I must , though it grieves me to go , To leave thee behind me breeds sorrow and woe , But the greatest of Storms shall ne'r cause me to fear , For isle cheer up my heart with the thoughts of my dear . When the winds they do blow and the Billows do roar , If I call but to mind My dear Love on the Shore My heart will rejoice , and isle banish all fear , In hope's to return to my love and my dear . Then be but as Loyal as isle be to thee , And nothing but death shall e're part thee and me , If women like Angels to me should appear , Yet still isle be true to my Love and my Dear . This true that we Sailors strange wonders do see , And strangers oft kind to the English will be , But the beauty's of Venice can never come near Thy feature , my Darling my Love and my dear . Believe what I say my hearts chiefest delight That think on thee still both by day and by night . For at home and abroad it shall always appear , That I will be true to my love and my dear . The Maidens Answer . I hear my true love this most sorrowful news , Which makes me lament , alas , how can I choose . The Seas I do fear will my comforts destroy , And rob me at last of my comfort and joy . Oh! when thou art absent what joy can I find , Or what can give ease to my troubled mind , E'ry wind that does blow will my pleasures destroy , For fear I should loose my delight and my joy . Go thou but to Venice thou never shalt find A lover so true , or so faithful and kind . Though at first I did seem to be childish and coy , Thou now art my comfort , my love and my joy . Then never forsake me for profit or gain , Nor leave thy true love for the wealth of the main . A jewel to love is and absolute Toy , Then never forsake me my love and my joy . But if thou wilt go to the Seas that do rage , Give me but thy promise , and firmly engage , Then isle wait thy return , nothing shall me annoy , But I constant will prove to my comfort and joy , Such Loyalty never by any was shown As isle show to thee , for I love thee alone , When we once are fastty'd isle applaud the blind Boy , That taught me to love thee my comfort and joy . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Rave [ n ] in Duck-lane . 