A Ship-load of Waggery . OR , clouded Merriment to please young men and maids . Maidens , here's long , and strong , both great and small ; For one poor Penny you may purchase all . To a New Tune . Or Cloris awake . A Ship must have a Steersman to steer her Course true , And a Maid must have a Young man to give her her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she Sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , They'l frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Rudder to steer in the dark , And a Maid must have a young man to hit at her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails etc A Ship must have a Canon to keep off her Foes , And a Maid must have a young man to take up her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails etc A Ship must have a Boltsprit , with a Sprizen a cross , And a maid must have a young man with a swinging long --- Top & top gallant A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , They'l frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Buntlin to hawle up her Bunt , And a maid must have a young man to tickle her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , Theyl frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Mast ; a long , strong , and strait Stick , And a Maid must have a young man with a lusty long --- Top and Top gallant , A ship she etc A Ship must be well Victuall'd with Meat without Bones , And a maid would have a young man with a stout pair of --- top and top gallants , A ship she etc A Ship should have a Captain , her Men to command , And a maid would have a young man to have his P --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she etc A Ship should have a Master to take in her freights , And a maid would have a young man to sail in her --- top and top gallant . A ship she sails etc When a Ship is under sail we do wish her good luck , And a maid under a young man we wish her a good --- top and top gallant , A ship she etc When a Ship comes into Port she must enter her Cockit , When a youngman comes to 'th fort he must enter , and --- top and top gallant , A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , They'l frown and look grimly . Printed fo [ r ] P. B [ r ] ooksby at the golden Ball in West Smithfield . A Ship-load of Waggery . OR , clouded Merriment to please young men and maids . Maidens , here's long , and strong , both great and small ; For one poor Penny you may purchase all . To a New Tune . Or Cloris awake . A Ship must have a Steersman to steer her Course true , And a Maid must have a Young man to give her her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she Sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , They'l frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Rudder to steer in the dark , And a Maid must have a young man to hit at her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails etc A Ship must have a Canon to keep off her Foes , And a Maid must have a young man to take up her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails etc A Ship must have a Boltsprit , with a Sprizen a cross , And a maid must have a young man with a swinging long --- Top & top gallant A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , They'l frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Buntlin to hawle up her Bunt , And a maid must have a young man to tickle her --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , Theyl frown and look grimly . A Ship must have a Mast ; a long , strong , and strait Stick , And a Maid must have a young man with a lusty long --- Top and Top gallant , A ship she etc A Ship must be well Victuall'd with Meat without Bones , And a maid would have a young man with a stout pair of --- top and top gallants , A ship she etc A Ship should have a Captain , her Men to command , And a maid would have a young man to have his P --- Top and Top gallant . A ship she etc A Ship should have a Master to take in her freights , And a maid would have a young man to sail in her --- top and top gallant . A ship she sails etc When a Ship is under sail we do wish her good luck , And a maid under a young man we wish her a good --- top and top gallant , A ship she etc When a Ship comes into Port she must enter her Cockit , When a youngman comes to 'th fort he must enter , and --- top and top gallant , A ship she sails trimly , Maids , if they be not pleased , They'l frown and look grimly . Printed fo [ r ] P. B [ r ] ooksby at the golden Ball in West Smithfield . 