SHINKIN's Misfortune : Or , The Poor Welsh Taylor Kidnapt for stealing a Goose , Leek , and a Cock-Gelding . To the Tune of Teague and Sawney : or , Lilliburlero . Licensed according to Order . SHinkin ap shone was rob a creet House , On the Porder of Wales , on St. Taffy's day , Was steel a Cock-Gelding , creen Leak , and a Coose , and then on a Goat was scamper away : A Hue-and-cry , through the Country did fly , while Shinkin spurr'd on hur Goat with a pin ; The Mountains were high , and no Houses were nigh but at last hur god over , and came to and Inn. Landlord ; said he , put up hur Welsh Nag , for hur has rid hard for fear of hur Life ; And take out hur Coose and hur Leek from hur Bag , hur will eat the Cock Gelding at home with hur wife . Roast hur Coose , and poyle hur Leek , and give hur a flagon or two of hur Ale ; Neck hur oth' head , for fear hur should squeak , and then hur is sure hur cannot tell Tale . Cots plutter-a-nails , when we did meet , Cock-gelding ; hur flutter'd ; and Coose did roar ; Hur made a dam noise all over the street , hur thought they did call hur a Son of a Whore : But night was dark , and Shinkin nimble , Cock-gelding and Coose did roar in vain , Hur drowned their noise with hur Podkin & Thimble , if hur had been taken , hur would have been slave . The Cook was call , and Fire was made , the Pot and the Spit were brought to the fire , Leeks were put in , and the Goose was laid to roast , according to Shinkin's Desire ; But long before the Meat was dressed , a Constable came with a Staff in his hand , For Felony he did poor Shinkin Arrest , and told him that he must obey his Command . Cots plut , quoth he , Sir this cannot be , for hur and hur Nag are just but come in ; And you are come hither without one I see , and you are quite dry , and we're wet to th' skin : Cots plutter-a-nails , if any in Wales , was tell hur that Shinkin ap Shone's a Thief , Was cut off hur ears with a pair of hur Shears , and send hur to England to peg Relief . The Constable whistle , and Peadles came in , and hurry'd poor Shinkin to a Shustice of Peace : Then sorrowful Shinkin did leave off his dinn , when the Constables charg'd him with stealing of Geese , 'Twas ask'd how he came by the Goose in his Sack , he said , he would tell them the Naked Truth , An't please hur , said he , hur hung Sack at hur back , 'twas cold , and the Coose crept in at the Mouth . At Shrovetide hur went to a neighb'ring Town , with hur Yard hur knock'd Cock-Gelding down ; Hur aim'd at hur back , and hit hur o'th' crown , hur's a Gentleman Taylor of creet Renown . A Rampant Lose hur has for hur Coat , a bunch of Leeks is Shinkin's Crest ; Hur did ill to pull poor Shinkin by Throat , sure hur do's come with a false Arrest . But Shinkin alas ! was sent to Gaol , For the Justice insisted on very good Bail ; And he was Indicted at Sessions for Theft , Tho' the Goose at the fire , in the Inn was left . Good Mr. Shustice , Shinkin did cry , was hur take hur Coose , and let hur alone , Hur [ ? ] Coose for a Coose that dares venture to die ; if hur pleases , the Coose hur will disown But Shinkin was ty'd , and whipped at a Post , and lost his Coose and Cock-Gelding to boot ; His Goat that he road on , fell to his Hos for he had not a penny of money , I doubt . Then Shinkin cursed , by St. Taffy he swore , he never was hurt for stealing a Shred , He would steal in his shop , but never once more his Paunch with Cock-Gelding or Coose should be fed . Hur will neither steal Coose , Cock-gelding , nor Beef , Hur may venture for Cabbage to play the Thief ; If hur Father stood by , hur wou'd snipp a piece ; But war Cock-gelding , war Leak , and war Geese : If Linen or Woolen come once in hur way , Hur will have a piece by night or by tay ; If it be but as much as a Button will make , Hur will a small piece from the Remnant take . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . SHINKIN's Misfortune : Or , The Poor Welsh Taylor Kidnapt for stealing a Goose , Leek , and a Cock-Gelding . To the Tune of Teague and Sawney : or , Lilliburlero . Licensed according to Order . SHinkin ap shone was rob a creet House , On the Porder of Wales , on St. Taffy's day , Was steel a Cock-Gelding , creen Leak , and a Coose , and then on a Goat was scamper away : A Hue-and-cry , through the Country did fly , while Shinkin spurr'd on hur Goat with a pin ; The Mountains were high , and no Houses were nigh but at last hur god over , and came to and Inn. Landlord ; said he , put up hur Welsh Nag , for hur has rid hard for fear of hur Life ; And take out hur Coose and hur Leek from hur Bag , hur will eat the Cock Gelding at home with hur wife . Roast hur Coose , and poyle hur Leek , and give hur a flagon or two of hur Ale ; Neck hur oth' head , for fear hur should squeak , and then hur is sure hur cannot tell Tale . Cots plutter-a-nails , when we did meet , Cock-gelding ; hur flutter'd ; and Coose did roar ; Hur made a dam noise all over the street , hur thought they did call hur a Son of a Whore : But night was dark , and Shinkin nimble , Cock-gelding and Coose did roar in vain , Hur drowned their noise with hur Podkin & Thimble , if hur had been taken , hur would have been slave . The Cook was call , and Fire was made , the Pot and the Spit were brought to the fire , Leeks were put in , and the Goose was laid to roast , according to Shinkin's Desire ; But long before the Meat was dressed , a Constable came with a Staff in his hand , For Felony he did poor Shinkin Arrest , and told him that he must obey his Command . Cots plut , quoth he , Sir this cannot be , for hur and hur Nag are just but come in ; And you are come hither without one I see , and you are quite dry , and we're wet to th' skin : Cots plutter-a-nails , if any in Wales , was tell hur that Shinkin ap Shone's a Thief , Was cut off hur ears with a pair of hur Shears , and send hur to England to peg Relief . The Constable whistle , and Peadles came in , and hurry'd poor Shinkin to a Shustice of Peace : Then sorrowful Shinkin did leave off his dinn , when the Constables charg'd him with stealing of Geese , 'Twas ask'd how he came by the Goose in his Sack , he said , he would tell them the Naked Truth , An't please hur , said he , hur hung Sack at hur back , 'twas cold , and the Coose crept in at the Mouth . At Shrovetide hur went to a neighb'ring Town , with hur Yard hur knock'd Cock-Gelding down ; Hur aim'd at hur back , and hit hur o'th' crown , hur's a Gentleman Taylor of creet Renown . A Rampant Lose hur has for hur Coat , a bunch of Leeks is Shinkin's Crest ; Hur did ill to pull poor Shinkin by Throat , sure hur do's come with a false Arrest . But Shinkin alas ! was sent to Gaol , For the Justice insisted on very good Bail ; And he was Indicted at Sessions for Theft , Tho' the Goose at the fire , in the Inn was left . Good Mr. Shustice , Shinkin did cry , was hur take hur Coose , and let hur alone , Hur [ ? ] Coose for a Coose that dares venture to die ; if hur pleases , the Coose hur will disown But Shinkin was ty'd , and whipped at a Post , and lost his Coose and Cock-Gelding to boot ; His Goat that he road on , fell to his Hos for he had not a penny of money , I doubt . Then Shinkin cursed , by St. Taffy he swore , he never was hurt for stealing a Shred , He would steal in his shop , but never once more his Paunch with Cock-Gelding or Coose should be fed . Hur will neither steal Coose , Cock-gelding , nor Beef , Hur may venture for Cabbage to play the Thief ; If hur Father stood by , hur wou'd snipp a piece ; But war Cock-gelding , war Leak , and war Geese : If Linen or Woolen come once in hur way , Hur will have a piece by night or by tay ; If it be but as much as a Button will make , Hur will a small piece from the Remnant take . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . 