( 1 ) A new Love-Song , and a true Love-Song . Made of a Young Man and a Maiden fair , Whose dwelling now is in Northamptonshire ; As they one evening late abroad was walking , A young man lay unseen , and herd them talking : To make their Compliments to seem more sweeter , Their words and actions he compos'd in Metre : 'Twas well they honest prov'd in verity , Because Tom-tell-truth chanc'd to be so nigh . To the Tune of , Colin and Amarillis . LOyal Lovers listen well To this Story which I'll tell , Wherein I briefly will relate what I herd rehearsed ; Between a young man and his mate is here most neatly versed . I walked forth one evening tide By a pleasant greenwood side , A pretty Couple there I spy'd , young Cupid by them hover'd ; I saw them walk , and herd them talk , yet I was not discover'd . The young man from Northampton came , Yet I'll not declare his name , Lest I should procure the blame that does attend a prater ; And in the end I make my friend become a perfect hater . She was a very gallant Lass , Many maids she did surpass ; She was so fair I vow and swear , 'twas pity to deceive her ; And since that day I herd some say , she was a Bone-lace-weaver . Man. Well met , fair Mistress , quoth the man , Thus to courting he began ; If I may have what I do crave , I'll not stand long disputing : But yield to me , and thou shalt see I'de rather be saluting . Here's a fit convenient place , Prithee Love let us embrace , There's no man nigh that can us spy , or hear what may be spoken ; Be kind to me , and thou shalt see I'll give thee many a Token . Maid . The Damsel smiling in his face , Said , Sir , I'me fearful to embrace ; For young men are deceitful Ware , and jears in them are reigning : Therefore be gone , let me alone , I do not know your meaning . You say , convenient now it is , There's no place set to do amiss ; Therefore I say I'll not obey , nor yield to such delusion ; Lest at the last when pleasure's passed , it turns to my confusion . The second Part , to the same Tune . Man. O dear Love be you content , For I am not lustful bent ; It is pure love that makes me move such questions now unto you ; You see I stand with cap in hand , on purpose for to woo you . Canst thou love me , prithee speak , Or else my tender heart will break ; For Cupid he hath wounded me , and made a deep incision : My Lovesick breast can take no rest , you have me in derision . Maid . Fie young man , what ado you keep , You talk as though you wanted sleep ; Can any be in Love so free in this our English Nation : Love cannot make a heart to break , 'tis but dissimulation . Be civil Sir , and let me come , My Mother wants me at home ; To stay i' th' night will her affright , and breed a great distraction 'Twixt her and I most certainly , because of time detraction . Man. Sweetheart I have a fine Estate , Sufficient to maintain a Mate ; Then be not coy my only Joy , my dearest Love and Honey : But condescend now in the end to join in Matrimony . I am the man upon my life , That will make thee a married Wife ; I'll give thee Rings and pretty things , that's fit for recreation : We'l spend the night in rare delight , to drive away vexation . Maid . When she had herd what he did say , She had no power to say him nay ; By this you know , that Goods will woo better then Complementing : But this I'me sure , Love will endure , when Lands and Goods is wanting . Quoth she , and if you'l faithful prove , And constant as the Turtle Dove ; I unto you will be as true , if things may right be carried : Then point a day without delay , wherein we may be married . The Conclusion . These Lovers then were both agreed , And homeward they return'd with speed ; With kisses sweet he did her greet , she lovingly did take i They plighted troth betwixt them both , and vow'd they'd never break it . I hearing of this pretty jest , To make a Song I thought it best ; If any he shall angry be with him that now hath penn'd it , Let him I say , without delay go take his pen and mend it . Finis . Thomas Jones . London , Printed for Richard Burton , at the Horshooe in Smithfield . ( 1 ) A new Love-Song , and a true Love-Song . Made of a Young Man and a Maiden fair , Whose dwelling now is in Northamptonshire ; As they one evening late abroad was walking , A young man lay unseen , and herd them talking : To make their Compliments to seem more sweeter , Their words and actions he compos'd in Metre : 'Twas well they honest prov'd in verity , Because Tom-tell-truth chanc'd to be so nigh . To the Tune of , Colin and Amarillis . LOyal Lovers listen well To this Story which I'll tell , Wherein I briefly will relate what I herd rehearsed ; Between a young man and his mate is here most neatly versed . I walked forth one evening tide By a pleasant greenwood side , A pretty Couple there I spy'd , young Cupid by them hover'd ; I saw them walk , and herd them talk , yet I was not discover'd . The young man from Northampton came , Yet I'll not declare his name , Lest I should procure the blame that does attend a prater ; And in the end I make my friend become a perfect hater . She was a very gallant Lass , Many maids she did surpass ; She was so fair I vow and swear , 'twas pity to deceive her ; And since that day I herd some say , she was a Bone-lace-weaver . Man. Well met , fair Mistress , quoth the man , Thus to courting he began ; If I may have what I do crave , I'll not stand long disputing : But yield to me , and thou shalt see I'de rather be saluting . Here's a fit convenient place , Prithee Love let us embrace , There's no man nigh that can us spy , or hear what may be spoken ; Be kind to me , and thou shalt see I'll give thee many a Token . Maid . The Damsel smiling in his face , Said , Sir , I'me fearful to embrace ; For young men are deceitful Ware , and jears in them are reigning : Therefore be gone , let me alone , I do not know your meaning . You say , convenient now it is , There's no place set to do amiss ; Therefore I say I'll not obey , nor yield to such delusion ; Lest at the last when pleasure's passed , it turns to my confusion . The second Part , to the same Tune . Man. O dear Love be you content , For I am not lustful bent ; It is pure love that makes me move such questions now unto you ; You see I stand with cap in hand , on purpose for to woo you . Canst thou love me , prithee speak , Or else my tender heart will break ; For Cupid he hath wounded me , and made a deep incision : My Lovesick breast can take no rest , you have me in derision . Maid . Fie young man , what ado you keep , You talk as though you wanted sleep ; Can any be in Love so free in this our English Nation : Love cannot make a heart to break , 'tis but dissimulation . Be civil Sir , and let me come , My Mother wants me at home ; To stay i' th' night will her affright , and breed a great distraction 'Twixt her and I most certainly , because of time detraction . Man. Sweetheart I have a fine Estate , Sufficient to maintain a Mate ; Then be not coy my only Joy , my dearest Love and Honey : But condescend now in the end to join in Matrimony . I am the man upon my life , That will make thee a married Wife ; I'll give thee Rings and pretty things , that's fit for recreation : We'l spend the night in rare delight , to drive away vexation . Maid . When she had herd what he did say , She had no power to say him nay ; By this you know , that Goods will woo better then Complementing : But this I'me sure , Love will endure , when Lands and Goods is wanting . Quoth she , and if you'l faithful prove , And constant as the Turtle Dove ; I unto you will be as true , if things may right be carried : Then point a day without delay , wherein we may be married . The Conclusion . These Lovers then were both agreed , And homeward they return'd with speed ; With kisses sweet he did her greet , she lovingly did take i They plighted troth betwixt them both , and vow'd they'd never break it . I hearing of this pretty jest , To make a Song I thought it best ; If any he shall angry be with him that now hath penn'd it , Let him I say , without delay go take his pen and mend it . Finis . Thomas Jones . London , Printed for Richard Burton , at the Horshooe in Smithfield . 