THE Witty Damsel of Devonshire : OR , A Dialogue between a Mother and her Daughter , concerning Robin the Miller whom the Daughter hated , and resolved to marry William the Blow - man whom she dearly Loved . Tune of Here I Love , there I Love : Or , The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . DEar Daughter come hither and hear what I say , When do you intend to be Married I pray , Poor Robin the Miller lies sick for your sake , Some pity of him I would have you now take . He vows that he loves you as dear as his life , And has a desire to make you his wife ; Then do not be cruel dear Daughter , said she , For why , he loves none in the Nation but thee . I will not believe him dear Mother she cry'd , There's Prudence [ , ] young Bridget , nay Susan beside , Nay Nelly , and Nancy , likewise Bonny Kate , All these youthful Lasses he courted of late , As soon as their Innocent Hearts were betray'd , He never regarded the Vows that he made ; Now if he do's languish , i'faith let him die , I know he is given to flatter and lie . My dear loving Daughter I an't of that mind , I'm certain he never can prove so unkind ; Afford him all kindness and love that you can , you'll find this poor Miller a right Honest Man. His life I would have you endeavour to save , For why should you send him with Sighs to the Grave ; Poor heart he does languish and cry day night , That you are resolved to ruin him quite . His strange Protestetions I vow and declare , Are none but self-notions young Maids to ensnare ; Therefore I'll have nothing to do with him then , These Millers I know to be false hearted Men . His death I am certain we need never fear , For Loyal to any he ne'er did appear ; Young Lasses he now courts a Store and above , Then hang him dear Mother he'll ne'er die for love . Beside I must tell you his calling I hate , And never desire to live at that rate , Before the Toll-dish my Apparel shall give , I will stay a Maiden as long as I live . I wonder dear Daughter you should be so coy , Both Riches and Pleasure you soon would enjoy , Beyond your Three Sisters Kate , Dolly , and Joan , For Robin you know has a Mill of his own . Likewise he has three or four Acres of Land , And also good Silver and Gold at command , He tells me that you shall be Dame of his store , Now think of this Daughter , what man can say more , I care not a Fig for his silver and Gold , Tho' he had as much as my Apron could hold , Nor yet do I valve his owning a Mill , If ever I wed it shall be honest Will . His living he gets by the sweat of his Brow , Sometime by his Thrashing then Harrow and Blow , By honest hard labour he lives true and just , But Millers you know they are Thieves at the best . I valve not Robin , nay Richard nor Ralph , If I am with William methinks I am safe , For why to his Honour , nay Glory and Fame , We now have a right valiant King of his Name . But as for the Robins it never was known , That they were thought worthy to come near the throne , Then Heavens preserve all the Williams therefore It being the Name which I dearly adore . Her Mother immediately made this Reply , Let Robin the Miller with languishing die , With these pretty sayings my heart you have wone , I will have a William likewise to my son . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Witty Damsel of Devonshire : OR , A Dialogue between a Mother and her Daughter , concerning Robin the Miller whom the Daughter hated , and resolved to marry William the Blow - man whom she dearly Loved . Tune of Here I Love , there I Love : Or , The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . DEar Daughter come hither and hear what I say , When do you intend to be Married I pray , Poor Robin the Miller lies sick for your sake , Some pity of him I would have you now take . He vows that he loves you as dear as his life , And has a desire to make you his wife ; Then do not be cruel dear Daughter , said she , For why , he loves none in the Nation but thee . I will not believe him dear Mother she cry'd , There's Prudence [ , ] young Bridget , nay Susan beside , Nay Nelly , and Nancy , likewise Bonny Kate , All these youthful Lasses he courted of late , As soon as their Innocent Hearts were betray'd , He never regarded the Vows that he made ; Now if he do's languish , i'faith let him die , I know he is given to flatter and lie . My dear loving Daughter I an't of that mind , I'm certain he never can prove so unkind ; Afford him all kindness and love that you can , you'll find this poor Miller a right Honest Man. His life I would have you endeavour to save , For why should you send him with Sighs to the Grave ; Poor heart he does languish and cry day night , That you are resolved to ruin him quite . His strange Protestetions I vow and declare , Are none but self-notions young Maids to ensnare ; Therefore I'll have nothing to do with him then , These Millers I know to be false hearted Men . His death I am certain we need never fear , For Loyal to any he ne'er did appear ; Young Lasses he now courts a Store and above , Then hang him dear Mother he'll ne'er die for love . Beside I must tell you his calling I hate , And never desire to live at that rate , Before the Toll-dish my Apparel shall give , I will stay a Maiden as long as I live . I wonder dear Daughter you should be so coy , Both Riches and Pleasure you soon would enjoy , Beyond your Three Sisters Kate , Dolly , and Joan , For Robin you know has a Mill of his own . Likewise he has three or four Acres of Land , And also good Silver and Gold at command , He tells me that you shall be Dame of his store , Now think of this Daughter , what man can say more , I care not a Fig for his silver and Gold , Tho' he had as much as my Apron could hold , Nor yet do I valve his owning a Mill , If ever I wed it shall be honest Will . His living he gets by the sweat of his Brow , Sometime by his Thrashing then Harrow and Blow , By honest hard labour he lives true and just , But Millers you know they are Thieves at the best . I valve not Robin , nay Richard nor Ralph , If I am with William methinks I am safe , For why to his Honour , nay Glory and Fame , We now have a right valiant King of his Name . But as for the Robins it never was known , That they were thought worthy to come near the throne , Then Heavens preserve all the Williams therefore It being the Name which I dearly adore . Her Mother immediately made this Reply , Let Robin the Miller with languishing die , With these pretty sayings my heart you have wone , I will have a William likewise to my son . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 