The Royoters Ruin , In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a twopenny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that hath most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent , and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon Resolving , repentance did then come too late , Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor , Quoth he now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'l make a clear end and spend that on a Whore . And as along in the streets he was walking He chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , All in her silks and her bravery adorned With a Compliment he there his Mobsie did greet , Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse , And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor I have but one twopence left , on thee i'l spend it , Quoth she then go look out your twopenny Whore . My dearest thou knoweth my former condition And how I have spent my estate upon thee , And now for to slight me it breeds my contrition , And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , and I will spend it , On thee , I protest my love I have no more , Quoth she you may serve for a Pimp to another For I will be none of your twopenny Whore . WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned And about my neck wore , a fine flanders lac'd Band Upon my head was no less then a Beaver , What was there then I had not at command Remember that we two , at that time together , Took sweet recreation , before I was poor , Quoth she Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny Whore . My former acquaintance with nearest relations Because I before their advice would not take Do very much slight me , men of reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake , And bids me go seek for my baudy companions Where I have consum'd my estate all before , Quod she I would have all your friends for to know it That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou know'st that in company we two together Have caused five pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocket Oh how canst thou sl [ i ] ght me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my money and not for my person , That you did my company so much adore However I pray thee bestow me this two pence , Quoth she I will not be your two penny whore . How often with Oaths , and with great protestation Engaged you have to be faithful to me , In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken , And now all my Coyn's gone , I slighted must be But yet here's a two pence left pray thee now take it And let us do once as we have done before . Quoth she I never did for two pence and therefore Be packing and hunt out your two penny whore . Well then my dear Love if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very , very little For former acquaintance and that shall be all . Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on therefore I must bid a farewell both to you and your two pence For I scorn to be counted a two penny whore . Quoth she Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake , to proscribe you a way How you may be doing , then let's to and Alehouse But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay Then give your two pence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'll set seven Groats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave of their lustful occasions If they cannot get money they trust out their ware , They'l keep a man company while his Coin lasteth And never forsake him until he be poor . And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the score . You Gallants and others I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it waste And fly evil company , of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast , And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those where you spent all your store The best way I know of , for you to prevent it , Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore . Printed for T. Passenger at the three Bibles on the middle of London Bridge . The Royoters Ruin , In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a twopenny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that hath most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent , and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon Resolving , repentance did then come too late , Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor , Quoth he now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'l make a clear end and spend that on a Whore . And as along in the streets he was walking He chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , All in her silks and her bravery adorned With a Compliment he there his Mobsie did greet , Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse , And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor I have but one twopence left , on thee i'l spend it , Quoth she then go look out your twopenny Whore . My dearest thou knoweth my former condition And how I have spent my estate upon thee , And now for to slight me it breeds my contrition , And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , and I will spend it , On thee , I protest my love I have no more , Quoth she you may serve for a Pimp to another For I will be none of your twopenny Whore . WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned And about my neck wore , a fine flanders lac'd Band Upon my head was no less then a Beaver , What was there then I had not at command Remember that we two , at that time together , Took sweet recreation , before I was poor , Quoth she Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny Whore . My former acquaintance with nearest relations Because I before their advice would not take Do very much slight me , men of reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake , And bids me go seek for my baudy companions Where I have consum'd my estate all before , Quod she I would have all your friends for to know it That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou know'st that in company we two together Have caused five pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocket Oh how canst thou sl [ i ] ght me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my money and not for my person , That you did my company so much adore However I pray thee bestow me this two pence , Quoth she I will not be your two penny whore . How often with Oaths , and with great protestation Engaged you have to be faithful to me , In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken , And now all my Coyn's gone , I slighted must be But yet here's a two pence left pray thee now take it And let us do once as we have done before . Quoth she I never did for two pence and therefore Be packing and hunt out your two penny whore . Well then my dear Love if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very , very little For former acquaintance and that shall be all . Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on therefore I must bid a farewell both to you and your two pence For I scorn to be counted a two penny whore . Quoth she Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake , to proscribe you a way How you may be doing , then let's to and Alehouse But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay Then give your two pence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'll set seven Groats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave of their lustful occasions If they cannot get money they trust out their ware , They'l keep a man company while his Coin lasteth And never forsake him until he be poor . And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the score . You Gallants and others I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it waste And fly evil company , of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast , And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those where you spent all your store The best way I know of , for you to prevent it , Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore . Printed for T. Passenger at the three Bibles on the middle of London Bridge . 