( 1 ) A Lamentable Ballad of the LADY's Fallen . To the Tune of , Ladys Fallen . MArk well my heavy doleful tale , you loyal lovers all , And heedfully bear in your breast a gallant ladies fallen : Long was she woo'd e're she was wone , to led a wedded life , But folly wrought her overthrow before she was a wife . Too soon ( alas ) she gave consent to yield unto his will , Though he protested to be true , and faithful to her still : She felt her body altered quite , her bright hue waxed pale , Her fair read cheeks turn'd colour white , her strength began to fail . So that with many a sorrowful sighs , this beauteous maiden mild , With grievous heart perceiv'd herself to be conceiv'd with child : She kept it from her father's sighed , as close as close might be , And so put on her silken gown none might her swelling see . Unto her lover secretly she did herself bewray , And walking with him had in hand , these words to him did say : Behold ( said she ) a maids distress , my love , brought to thy bow , Behold I go with child by thee , but none thereof does know . The little babe springs in my womb to hear the father's voice , Let it not be a bastard call'd , sith I made thee my choice : Come come my love , perform thy vow , and wed me out of hand ; Oh leave me not in this extreme , in grief always to stand Think on thy former promise made , thy vows and oaths each one ; Remember with what bitter tears to me thou mad'st thy moan : Convey me to some secret place , and marry me with speed , Or with thy Rapier end my life , e're further shame proceed . Alas my dearest love ( quoth he ) my greatest joy on earth , Which way can I convey thee hence , without a sudden death ? Thy friends they be of High degree , and I of mean estate , Full hard it is to get thee forth , out of thy father's gate . Dread not thyself to save my fame , and if thou taken be , Myself will step between the swords , and take the harm on me ; So shall I escape dishonour quite , if so I should be slave , What could they say , but that true love did work a ladys pain . And not fear any further harm , myself will so devise , That I will go away with thee unseen of mortal eyes ; Disguised like some pretty Page I'll meet thee in the dark , And all alone I'll come to thee hard by my father's park . And there ( quoth he ) I'll meet my love , if God do lend me life , And this day month without all fail I will make thee my wife ; Then with a sweet and loving kiss , they parted presently , And at their parting brinish tears , stood in each others eye . At length the wished day was come whereby this lovely maid With lovely eyes and strange attire , for her true-lover stayed : When any person she espy'd come riding o're the plain , She thought it was her own true love , but all her Hope's were vain . Then did she weep and soar bewail her most unhappy state , Then did she speak these woeful words , when succourless she sa Oh false forsworn and faithless wretch , disloyal to thy love ; Hast thou forgotten thy promise made ? and wilt thou perjur'd prove . And hast thou now forsaken me in this my great distress ? To end my days in open shame , which thou might'st well redress : Woe worth the time I did believe that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eye . And thus with many a sorrowful sighs , homeward she went again , No rest came in her wat'ry eyes , she felt such bitter pain , In travel strong she fell that night with many a bitter throw , What woeful pangs she felt that night does each good woman know . She called up her waiting-maid that lay at her bedsfeet , Who musing at her mistress's woe , did strait begin to weep ; Weep not ( said she ) but shut the door and windows round about , Let none bewail my wretched case , but keep all persons out . O mistress call your mother dear , of women you have need , And of some skilful midwifes help , the better you may speed : Call not my mother for thy life , nor call no women here , The midwifes help comes now too late , my death I do not fear . With that the babe sprung in her womb , no creature being nigh , And with a sighs that broke her heart , this gallant dame did die : This living little infant young , the mother being dead , Resign'd his new received breath , to Him that had him made . Next morning came her lover true , affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , whom each one did accuse : The mother with the new born babe , were both laid in one grave , Their parents overcome with woe , no joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty damosels all , of flattering words beware , And of the honour of your name , have you a special care : Too true alas this story is , as many one can tell ; By others harms learn to be wise , and thou shalt do full well . Printed by and for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . ( 1 ) A Lamentable Ballad of the LADY's Fallen . To the Tune of , Ladys Fallen . MArk well my heavy doleful tale , you loyal lovers all , And heedfully bear in your breast a gallant ladies fallen : Long was she woo'd e're she was wone , to led a wedded life , But folly wrought her overthrow before she was a wife . Too soon ( alas ) she gave consent to yield unto his will , Though he protested to be true , and faithful to her still : She felt her body altered quite , her bright hue waxed pale , Her fair read cheeks turn'd colour white , her strength began to fail . So that with many a sorrowful sighs , this beauteous maiden mild , With grievous heart perceiv'd herself to be conceiv'd with child : She kept it from her father's sighed , as close as close might be , And so put on her silken gown none might her swelling see . Unto her lover secretly she did herself bewray , And walking with him had in hand , these words to him did say : Behold ( said she ) a maids distress , my love , brought to thy bow , Behold I go with child by thee , but none thereof does know . The little babe springs in my womb to hear the father's voice , Let it not be a bastard call'd , sith I made thee my choice : Come come my love , perform thy vow , and wed me out of hand ; Oh leave me not in this extreme , in grief always to stand Think on thy former promise made , thy vows and oaths each one ; Remember with what bitter tears to me thou mad'st thy moan : Convey me to some secret place , and marry me with speed , Or with thy Rapier end my life , e're further shame proceed . Alas my dearest love ( quoth he ) my greatest joy on earth , Which way can I convey thee hence , without a sudden death ? Thy friends they be of High degree , and I of mean estate , Full hard it is to get thee forth , out of thy father's gate . Dread not thyself to save my fame , and if thou taken be , Myself will step between the swords , and take the harm on me ; So shall I escape dishonour quite , if so I should be slave , What could they say , but that true love did work a ladys pain . And not fear any further harm , myself will so devise , That I will go away with thee unseen of mortal eyes ; Disguised like some pretty Page I'll meet thee in the dark , And all alone I'll come to thee hard by my father's park . And there ( quoth he ) I'll meet my love , if God do lend me life , And this day month without all fail I will make thee my wife ; Then with a sweet and loving kiss , they parted presently , And at their parting brinish tears , stood in each others eye . At length the wished day was come whereby this lovely maid With lovely eyes and strange attire , for her true-lover stayed : When any person she espy'd come riding o're the plain , She thought it was her own true love , but all her Hope's were vain . Then did she weep and soar bewail her most unhappy state , Then did she speak these woeful words , when succourless she sa Oh false forsworn and faithless wretch , disloyal to thy love ; Hast thou forgotten thy promise made ? and wilt thou perjur'd prove . And hast thou now forsaken me in this my great distress ? To end my days in open shame , which thou might'st well redress : Woe worth the time I did believe that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eye . And thus with many a sorrowful sighs , homeward she went again , No rest came in her wat'ry eyes , she felt such bitter pain , In travel strong she fell that night with many a bitter throw , What woeful pangs she felt that night does each good woman know . She called up her waiting-maid that lay at her bedsfeet , Who musing at her mistress's woe , did strait begin to weep ; Weep not ( said she ) but shut the door and windows round about , Let none bewail my wretched case , but keep all persons out . O mistress call your mother dear , of women you have need , And of some skilful midwifes help , the better you may speed : Call not my mother for thy life , nor call no women here , The midwifes help comes now too late , my death I do not fear . With that the babe sprung in her womb , no creature being nigh , And with a sighs that broke her heart , this gallant dame did die : This living little infant young , the mother being dead , Resign'd his new received breath , to Him that had him made . Next morning came her lover true , affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , whom each one did accuse : The mother with the new born babe , were both laid in one grave , Their parents overcome with woe , no joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty damosels all , of flattering words beware , And of the honour of your name , have you a special care : Too true alas this story is , as many one can tell ; By others harms learn to be wise , and thou shalt do full well . Printed by and for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . 