The Doleful Lamentation Of Thomas Dangerfield , who was lately apprehended and Imprisoned in Newgate , for High Misdemeaner , etc To the Tune of 'Tis for mine own offence I must Die . I . MArk well my words you Country Men , And Loyal Subject's all , And take Example now by me , To shun a dreadful fallen . My Name's unhappy Dangerfield , In Prison I am fast , And all my great Designs are turn'd To sorrow now at last . II In England I was born and bred , And Educate at School : But all the Labour was but lost , Since I grew up a Fool : Altho' GOD does Govern all things , According to his Will , He never yet did bring to pass And Actium that was ill . III . When men resist the Motions , and Convictions of the Truth , And follow all the found Delights That's incident to Youth , The GOD of TRUTH departs from them , And leaves them to their since ; And then the subtle Serpent does Ensnare them in his Jen. IV. I by degrees of since did climb The steps of Wickedness ; Which now ( alas ) hath brought poor me To wooful great distress : I was unfaithful to my GOD , And Traitorous to my KING , And I was ready ( on a call ) To every Evil Thing . V. My Vices they were manifold , My Company was evil ; I us'd a Thousand wild conceits , To run me to the Devil . I turn'd a Coiner by my Trade , And Mountibank of State , For which I'm grieved at the Heart , Though now it be too late . VI . Now I'm inclos'd in Prison close , Secur'd in Walls of Stone ; I languish without Remedy , Relief I can have none . My Senses are my sorrows sluice , The Floodgates of my shame , And all my cruel Comforters Add Fuel to my Flame . VII . O were I at my Liberty ( As I have been before ) I never would prove Treacherous , Nor run on such a score . But now my Lamentation's late , My Sighs they are in vain ; Nor can I entertain a thought To be set free again . VIII . You Spirits brave that live at ease , Yet never are content , But still will be a meddling With State and Parliament Leave off your high and great Designs , And change your minds with speed , It is the greatest fallen that's from Promotions Pyramid's . London ; Printed for J. Huzzey , 1685. The Doleful Lamentation Of Thomas Dangerfield , who was lately apprehended and Imprisoned in Newgate , for High Misdemeaner , etc To the Tune of 'Tis for mine own offence I must Die . I . MArk well my words you Country Men , And Loyal Subject's all , And take Example now by me , To shun a dreadful fallen . My Name's unhappy Dangerfield , In Prison I am fast , And all my great Designs are turn'd To sorrow now at last . II In England I was born and bred , And Educate at School : But all the Labour was but lost , Since I grew up a Fool : Altho' GOD does Govern all things , According to his Will , He never yet did bring to pass And Actium that was ill . III . When men resist the Motions , and Convictions of the Truth , And follow all the found Delights That's incident to Youth , The GOD of TRUTH departs from them , And leaves them to their since ; And then the subtle Serpent does Ensnare them in his Jen. IV. I by degrees of since did climb The steps of Wickedness ; Which now ( alas ) hath brought poor me To wooful great distress : I was unfaithful to my GOD , And Traitorous to my KING , And I was ready ( on a call ) To every Evil Thing . V. My Vices they were manifold , My Company was evil ; I us'd a Thousand wild conceits , To run me to the Devil . I turn'd a Coiner by my Trade , And Mountibank of State , For which I'm grieved at the Heart , Though now it be too late . VI . Now I'm inclos'd in Prison close , Secur'd in Walls of Stone ; I languish without Remedy , Relief I can have none . My Senses are my sorrows sluice , The Floodgates of my shame , And all my cruel Comforters Add Fuel to my Flame . VII . O were I at my Liberty ( As I have been before ) I never would prove Treacherous , Nor run on such a score . But now my Lamentation's late , My Sighs they are in vain ; Nor can I entertain a thought To be set free again . VIII . You Spirits brave that live at ease , Yet never are content , But still will be a meddling With State and Parliament Leave off your high and great Designs , And change your minds with speed , It is the greatest fallen that's from Promotions Pyramid's . London ; Printed for J. Huzzey , 1685. 