The Complaint of Ulallia for the causing her Husband to be murdered for the love of Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part , Of conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young , my father forc'd me wed Against my will , where fancy was not fed , I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they proffer'd in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me with delight , But gold nor gifts could not my mind remove , For I was link'd whereas I could not love . Me thought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly . This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with this wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare le His love so deep a woe in me did take , I would have gone abegging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even though my parents plain If faith and truth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God , forgive my father's deed , And grant all maidens may take better heed : If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not match'd to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought mine own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away , And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed to me , Oh Lord forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you inspire , Seek to escape such foul and filthy mire . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my sp'rit , Strengthen my faith in bitter pains of death : Forgive my faults , and folly of my sins , And with thy blood wash thou away my crimes . FINIS . The Complaint of Ulallia for the causing her Husband to be murdered for the love of Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part , Of conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young , my father forc'd me wed Against my will , where fancy was not fed , I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they proffer'd in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me with delight , But gold nor gifts could not my mind remove , For I was link'd whereas I could not love . Me thought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly . This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with this wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare le His love so deep a woe in me did take , I would have gone abegging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even though my parents plain If faith and truth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God , forgive my father's deed , And grant all maidens may take better heed : If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not match'd to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought mine own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away , And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed to me , Oh Lord forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you inspire , Seek to escape such foul and filthy mire . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my sp'rit , Strengthen my faith in bitter pains of death : Forgive my faults , and folly of my sins , And with thy blood wash thou away my crimes . FINIS . 