The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for the con - senting to the death of Mr. Page of Plymouth , suffer - ed death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records her Swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed crime , So wed in wealth , as birds in bush of lime ; What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite Against my love , and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou had a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take : Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulallia more bright than Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had forever my love wone : My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Than to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in my heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot it relen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame , My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love , whose loyal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my love , the pride of Plymouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know Thy unkind father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so sour did fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfi And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I deny'd Ulallia still should live : Blind fancy said this suit do not deny ; Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for the con - senting to the death of Mr. Page of Plymouth , suffer - ed death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records her Swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed crime , So wed in wealth , as birds in bush of lime ; What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite Against my love , and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou had a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take : Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulallia more bright than Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had forever my love wone : My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Than to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in my heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot it relen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame , My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love , whose loyal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my love , the pride of Plymouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know Thy unkind father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so sour did fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfi And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I deny'd Ulallia still should live : Blind fancy said this suit do not deny ; Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his sake . 