THE Miserable Maulster : OR , The Kentish Man's Cruelty , Who , in a Passion Dismember'd himself , to the unspeakable Grief of his Loving Wife , and Kind Friends . To the Tune of , Found Boy , Or , Loves a sweet Passion . A Maulster that liv'd in the County of Kent , Had a Delicate Movement his Wife to content , But one day in a passion he Cut off the same , I must tell you , for this he was highly to blame , His good wife with sorrow she looks like one Dead , And declares she had rather he'd Cut off his Head. It was so unruly , that every day , The Goodman was in danger of running a stray , It would commonly leap into other men's ground , Now for fear he at last should be put in the pound , He did whip it quite off , and without fear or Dread , But his wife she had rather he'd Cut off his Head , Then she a New Husband perhaps might have had , To have chear'd up her spirits and made heart glad , But as long as he lives , she is like to have none , Therefore has she just cause to make pitiful moan : O she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that branch he had Cut off his Head. They say that there was not a better in Hide , Nor in all the whole County or Kingdom beside , Many Years the good Woman the same had Injoy'd , But alas after all it is clearly destroy'd , Now she wishes each Night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head. There was and Old Women that liv'd in the Town , Straight she pull'd out a Purse , ay , & proffer'd a crown For to have it sow'd on again if it might , For 'tis pity to loose such a Curriel , quoth she , For with that the Wives pleasures is utterly fled , Therefore he had been better if he'd Cut off his Head. She put on her Spectacles meaning to try , For to sow it her self , while in Bed he did lie , Yet alas all her labour did prove but in vain , For it could not be fasten [ e ] worser together again , Then in sorrow she left him to lie in his Bed , And declar'd he had better he'd Cut off his Head. This was a Rich Jewel far better than Gold , For when ever the Womon did happen to Scold , It would strait beatrice a Parley of pleasure for Peace , But alas it is gone , now her griefs so increase , Now she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head Since this is a Branch which he cannot repair , It is reason and fit that this Maulster should wear , All the days of his life a strong Night Cap of Horn , Thus the Women and Wenches all laugh him to scorn Ever since that same time such a life he has led , That he wishes indeed he had Cut off his Head. Some Women come to him and merrily joke , Saying , prithee sweet Neighbour come play us a stroke But the man is not able and that they all know , And beside when along in the Town he does go , Oh! the scoffs of the woman this Maulster does dread , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . He once had the love of Young Women indeed , When it lay in his power their fancies to feed , But yet nevertheless since he's lost his good Geer , Not a Wench of them all will his presence come near , But to scoff at the man ; thus his comforts are fled , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . Printed for J. Raven in Holbourn . THE Miserable Maulster : OR , The Kentish Man's Cruelty , Who , in a Passion Dismember'd himself , to the unspeakable Grief of his Loving Wife , and Kind Friends . To the Tune of , Found Boy , Or , Loves a sweet Passion . A Maulster that liv'd in the County of Kent , Had a Delicate Movement his Wife to content , But one day in a passion he Cut off the same , I must tell you , for this he was highly to blame , His good wife with sorrow she looks like one Dead , And declares she had rather he'd Cut off his Head. It was so unruly , that every day , The Goodman was in danger of running a stray , It would commonly leap into other men's ground , Now for fear he at last should be put in the pound , He did whip it quite off , and without fear or Dread , But his wife she had rather he'd Cut off his Head , Then she a New Husband perhaps might have had , To have chear'd up her spirits and made heart glad , But as long as he lives , she is like to have none , Therefore has she just cause to make pitiful moan : O she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that branch he had Cut off his Head. They say that there was not a better in Hide , Nor in all the whole County or Kingdom beside , Many Years the good Woman the same had Injoy'd , But alas after all it is clearly destroy'd , Now she wishes each Night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head. There was and Old Women that liv'd in the Town , Straight she pull'd out a Purse , ay , & proffer'd a crown For to have it sow'd on again if it might , For 'tis pity to loose such a Curriel , quoth she , For with that the Wives pleasures is utterly fled , Therefore he had been better if he'd Cut off his Head. She put on her Spectacles meaning to try , For to sow it her self , while in Bed he did lie , Yet alas all her labour did prove but in vain , For it could not be fasten [ e ] worser together again , Then in sorrow she left him to lie in his Bed , And declar'd he had better he'd Cut off his Head. This was a Rich Jewel far better than Gold , For when ever the Womon did happen to Scold , It would strait beatrice a Parley of pleasure for Peace , But alas it is gone , now her griefs so increase , Now she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head Since this is a Branch which he cannot repair , It is reason and fit that this Maulster should wear , All the days of his life a strong Night Cap of Horn , Thus the Women and Wenches all laugh him to scorn Ever since that same time such a life he has led , That he wishes indeed he had Cut off his Head. Some Women come to him and merrily joke , Saying , prithee sweet Neighbour come play us a stroke But the man is not able and that they all know , And beside when along in the Town he does go , Oh! the scoffs of the woman this Maulster does dread , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . He once had the love of Young Women indeed , When it lay in his power their fancies to feed , But yet nevertheless since he's lost his good Geer , Not a Wench of them all will his presence come near , But to scoff at the man ; thus his comforts are fled , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . Printed for J. Raven in Holbourn . THE Miserable Maulster : OR , The Kentish Man's Cruelty , Who , in a Passion Dismember'd himself , to the unspeakable Grief of his Loving Wife , and Kind Friends . To the Tune of , Found Boy , Or , Loves a sweet Passion . A Maulster that liv'd in the County of Kent , Had a Delicate Movement his Wife to content , But one day in a passion he Cut off the same , I must tell you , for this he was highly to blame , His good wife with sorrow she looks like one Dead , And declares she had rather he'd Cut off his Head. It was so unruly , that every day , The Goodman was in danger of running a stray , It would commonly leap into other men's ground , Now for fear he at last should be put in the pound , He did whip it quite off , and without fear or Dread , But his wife she had rather he'd Cut off his Head , Then she a New Husband perhaps might have had , To have chear'd up her spirits and made heart glad , But as long as he lives , she is like to have none , Therefore has she just cause to make pitiful moan : O she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that branch he had Cut off his Head. They say that there was not a better in Hide , Nor in all the whole County or Kingdom beside , Many Years the good Woman the same had Injoy'd , But alas after all it is clearly destroy'd , Now she wishes each Night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head. There was and Old Women that liv'd in the Town , Straight she pull'd out a Purse , ay , & proffer'd a crown For to have it sow'd on again if it might , For 'tis pity to loose such a Curriel , quoth she , For with that the Wives pleasures is utterly fled , Therefore he had been better if he'd Cut off his Head. She put on her Spectacles meaning to try , For to sow it her self , while in Bed he did lie , Yet alas all her labour did prove but in vain , For it could not be fasten [ e ] worser together again , Then in sorrow she left him to lie in his Bed , And declar'd he had better he'd Cut off his Head. This was a Rich Jewel far better than Gold , For when ever the Womon did happen to Scold , It would strait beatrice a Parley of pleasure for Peace , But alas it is gone , now her griefs so increase , Now she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head Since this is a Branch which he cannot repair , It is reason and fit that this Maulster should wear , All the days of his life a strong Night Cap of Horn , Thus the Women and Wenches all laugh him to scorn Ever since that same time such a life he has led , That he wishes indeed he had Cut off his Head. Some Women come to him and merrily joke , Saying , prithee sweet Neighbour come play us a stroke But the man is not able and that they all know , And beside when along in the Town he does go , Oh! the scoffs of the woman this Maulster does dread , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . He once had the love of Young Women indeed , When it lay in his power their fancies to feed , But yet nevertheless since he's lost his good Geer , Not a Wench of them all will his presence come near , But to scoff at the man ; thus his comforts are fled , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . Printed for J. Raven in Holbourn . THE Miserable Maulster : OR , The Kentish Man's Cruelty , Who , in a Passion Dismember'd himself , to the unspeakable Grief of his Loving Wife , and Kind Friends . To the Tune of , Found Boy , Or , Loves a sweet Passion . A Maulster that liv'd in the County of Kent , Had a Delicate Movement his Wife to content , But one day in a passion he Cut off the same , I must tell you , for this he was highly to blame , His good wife with sorrow she looks like one Dead , And declares she had rather he'd Cut off his Head. It was so unruly , that every day , The Goodman was in danger of running a stray , It would commonly leap into other men's ground , Now for fear he at last should be put in the pound , He did whip it quite off , and without fear or Dread , But his wife she had rather he'd Cut off his Head , Then she a New Husband perhaps might have had , To have chear'd up her spirits and made heart glad , But as long as he lives , she is like to have none , Therefore has she just cause to make pitiful moan : O she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that branch he had Cut off his Head. They say that there was not a better in Hide , Nor in all the whole County or Kingdom beside , Many Years the good Woman the same had Injoy'd , But alas after all it is clearly destroy'd , Now she wishes each Night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head. There was and Old Women that liv'd in the Town , Straight she pull'd out a Purse , ay , & proffer'd a crown For to have it sow'd on again if it might , For 'tis pity to loose such a Curriel , quoth she , For with that the Wives pleasures is utterly fled , Therefore he had been better if he'd Cut off his Head. She put on her Spectacles meaning to try , For to sow it her self , while in Bed he did lie , Yet alas all her labour did prove but in vain , For it could not be fasten [ e ] worser together again , Then in sorrow she left him to lie in his Bed , And declar'd he had better he'd Cut off his Head. This was a Rich Jewel far better than Gold , For when ever the Womon did happen to Scold , It would strait beatrice a Parley of pleasure for Peace , But alas it is gone , now her griefs so increase , Now she wishes each night as she lies in her Bed , That instead of that Branch he had Cut off his Head Since this is a Branch which he cannot repair , It is reason and fit that this Maulster should wear , All the days of his life a strong Night Cap of Horn , Thus the Women and Wenches all laugh him to scorn Ever since that same time such a life he has led , That he wishes indeed he had Cut off his Head. Some Women come to him and merrily joke , Saying , prithee sweet Neighbour come play us a stroke But the man is not able and that they all know , And beside when along in the Town he does go , Oh! the scoffs of the woman this Maulster does dread , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . He once had the love of Young Women indeed , When it lay in his power their fancies to feed , But yet nevertheless since he's lost his good Geer , Not a Wench of them all will his presence come near , But to scoff at the man ; thus his comforts are fled , For they tell him 'twere better he'd Cut off his head . Printed for J. Raven in Holbourn . 