The Repulsive Maid . Who once to a youngman , but now cannot win , To open the door , and let him come in . To a pleasant New Tune : Or , sweet open the Door , etc Youngman . SWeet open the door and let me come in , For to be a Wooer I now begin , And say thy Lover I have been , I'le love thee and no more . Maid . To open the door that I could do , And if it were for and hour or two , But if that my father or mother should know , I should be beaten soar . Youngman . To be beaten for me my love that were a since , Sweee open the door and let me come in , Thy father , nor mother , nor none of thy kin , shall never beatrice thee more . Maid . To open the door love I have been bold , And many false tales I have been told , But another man hath my heart in hold , I cannot love thee therefore Youngman . Thou know'st before when the time hath been , Thou hast open'd the door and let me come in , But now my love is not worth a pin , I prithee tell me wherefore . Maid . I am not disposed to tell the now , Go walk Knave as thou know'st how ? For I can no entrance to thee allow , adieu for evermore . Youngman . To knock and to call I will never lin , Till you open the door and let me come in , With coming I fell and have broken my shin , which grieves me very soar . Maid . If thou hast broken thy shin my love sorry am I , Yet cannot I find in my heart for to cry , I'le give thee a plaster for it by and by , shall pain thee ten times more . Youngman . I Prithee love do not to jear begin , But open the door and let me come in , I'le be more kind then ever I have been , I prithee love open the door , Maid . Two words to a bargain my small friend , To open the door I do not intend , My Father and Mother I oft did offend . i'le never offend them more , Youngman . Of father and Mother do not tell me , For I am come alone to visit thee , And if my face thou wilt not see , then show me a reason wherefore . Maid . A reason just I can you tell , To do it now does not like me well , I hate thee as bad as the Devil in hell , then adieu forever more . Youngman . How comes it to pass my love thou art so cursed And wertenberg so kind to me at the first , Of all men living my luck is the worst , to be hated and know not wherefore . Maid . Alas Sir , I have found out your tricks , You love did crave of five or six , Yet take who you will , it shall never me vex . adieu for evermore . Youngman . What though I have made choice of 6 or 7 , Nay , what if I had-nine ten or eleven , Yet thou may'st make the dozen even , and do as thou hast done before . Maid . I am not the first that hath done amiss , Nor shall be the last that a knave will kiss , I pray thee pick English out of this , you shall never kiss me more . Youngman . The Rose is read , and the leaves are green , And the days are passed which I have seen , Another man may be where I have been , though now I am thrust out of door . Maid . Walk Knave is a Parrots note , And if the Hangman don't get your Coat , I'le meet you at Holbourn-hill in a Boat , if ever I love you more . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Repulsive Maid . Who once to a youngman , but now cannot win , To open the door , and let him come in . To a pleasant New Tune : Or , sweet open the Door , etc Youngman . SWeet open the door and let me come in , For to be a Wooer I now begin , And say thy Lover I have been , I'le love thee and no more . Maid . To open the door that I could do , And if it were for and hour or two , But if that my father or mother should know , I should be beaten soar . Youngman . To be beaten for me my love that were a since , Sweee open the door and let me come in , Thy father , nor mother , nor none of thy kin , shall never beatrice thee more . Maid . To open the door love I have been bold , And many false tales I have been told , But another man hath my heart in hold , I cannot love thee therefore Youngman . Thou know'st before when the time hath been , Thou hast open'd the door and let me come in , But now my love is not worth a pin , I prithee tell me wherefore . Maid . I am not disposed to tell the now , Go walk Knave as thou know'st how ? For I can no entrance to thee allow , adieu for evermore . Youngman . To knock and to call I will never lin , Till you open the door and let me come in , With coming I fell and have broken my shin , which grieves me very soar . Maid . If thou hast broken thy shin my love sorry am I , Yet cannot I find in my heart for to cry , I'le give thee a plaster for it by and by , shall pain thee ten times more . Youngman . I Prithee love do not to jear begin , But open the door and let me come in , I'le be more kind then ever I have been , I prithee love open the door , Maid . Two words to a bargain my small friend , To open the door I do not intend , My Father and Mother I oft did offend . i'le never offend them more , Youngman . Of father and Mother do not tell me , For I am come alone to visit thee , And if my face thou wilt not see , then show me a reason wherefore . Maid . A reason just I can you tell , To do it now does not like me well , I hate thee as bad as the Devil in hell , then adieu forever more . Youngman . How comes it to pass my love thou art so cursed And wertenberg so kind to me at the first , Of all men living my luck is the worst , to be hated and know not wherefore . Maid . Alas Sir , I have found out your tricks , You love did crave of five or six , Yet take who you will , it shall never me vex . adieu for evermore . Youngman . What though I have made choice of 6 or 7 , Nay , what if I had-nine ten or eleven , Yet thou may'st make the dozen even , and do as thou hast done before . Maid . I am not the first that hath done amiss , Nor shall be the last that a knave will kiss , I pray thee pick English out of this , you shall never kiss me more . Youngman . The Rose is read , and the leaves are green , And the days are passed which I have seen , Another man may be where I have been , though now I am thrust out of door . Maid . Walk Knave is a Parrots note , And if the Hangman don't get your Coat , I'le meet you at Holbourn-hill in a Boat , if ever I love you more . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 