THE Jolly COACH-MAN : OR , The Buxom Tailors Wives Late folly . When Wantons they will run astray , Their fancies thus to feed , And Truck for Coin , for Feathers fine , Sure they are Drabs indeed . To the Tune of , A Job for a Journeyman-Shooe-maker . A Tailors wife exceeding fair , a Coachman often courted , Their names I need not now declare , but yet it is reported : The Coachman he courageously , went out as nothing fearing , But now attend , to what is pen'd , the jest is worth your hearing . The Coach man and the Tailors Wife , had many private meeting , He vow'd he lov'd her as his life , Oh this was pleasant greeting : But her reply was pish , and fie , yet he was not contented , Till she did yield to him the field , and willingly consented . Quoth she , if that I do comply , to answer your desire , I hope you will not me deny , what I of you require : Lay me two Guinnies in my hand to buy me hoods and Laces , Then I will be at thy command , with solace and embraces The Coach man like a jolly Blade , his Miss he then saluted , And like a friend to her he said , this need not be disputed : For thou shalt have a flower'd gown , with many pretty fancies , Sweet creature let me lay thee down , to charm thy youthful senses . Said she I fear my overthrow , and then what will betide me , If that my husband he should know , he'd certainly deride me : Therefore she seemed something coy , yet could not well deny him , Upon fair terms she would comply , and was resolv'd to try him . Quoth she my dear thou hast my heart , and my entire favour , Yet something I would have in part , for fear your mind should waver : I never will be coy nor nice , but always kind and willing , I can bore something of the price , come pay down thirty Shilling . The Coachman had not quite so much , 'till he receiv'd his wages , He wanted ten , and therefore then , he solemnly engages : That he would make no more delay , but twenty down would tender , And ten another time would pay , if she would but surrender . Then straight they struck a bargain thus , when she receive'd his treasure , And like a drab she drean'd his purse , and yielded to his pleasure : He found she was a crafty Dame , and therefore he did fear her , And also weary of the game , then came no more a near her . When she did find , he was unkind , who called her his honey , She soon was of another mind , to trounce him for her money : It did appear he did not fear , but thought she had but jested , She vowed still to have her will , that he should be arrested . She fetch'd a Warrant for him then , and thus began the rumour , I think there was not one in ten , but laughed at the humour : But when at last the fray was passed , the Taylor he was scorned , And in the rout , the Boys did shout , and told him he was horned . The Taylor he does now complain , that he is daily flouted , But women of the wanton strain , they cannot live without i I would not have him whine nor pine , those reasons are presented , There's some that go in Velvet fine , are forc'd to be contented . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 1685. THE Jolly COACH-MAN : OR , The Buxom Tailors Wives Late folly . When Wantons they will run astray , Their fancies thus to feed , And Truck for Coin , for Feathers fine , Sure they are Drabs indeed . To the Tune of , A Job for a Journeyman-Shooe-maker . A Tailors wife exceeding fair , a Coachman often courted , Their names I need not now declare , but yet it is reported : The Coachman he courageously , went out as nothing fearing , But now attend , to what is pen'd , the jest is worth your hearing . The Coach man and the Tailors Wife , had many private meeting , He vow'd he lov'd her as his life , Oh this was pleasant greeting : But her reply was pish , and fie , yet he was not contented , Till she did yield to him the field , and willingly consented . Quoth she , if that I do comply , to answer your desire , I hope you will not me deny , what I of you require : Lay me two Guinnies in my hand to buy me hoods and Laces , Then I will be at thy command , with solace and embraces The Coach man like a jolly Blade , his Miss he then saluted , And like a friend to her he said , this need not be disputed : For thou shalt have a flower'd gown , with many pretty fancies , Sweet creature let me lay thee down , to charm thy youthful senses . Said she I fear my overthrow , and then what will betide me , If that my husband he should know , he'd certainly deride me : Therefore she seemed something coy , yet could not well deny him , Upon fair terms she would comply , and was resolv'd to try him . Quoth she my dear thou hast my heart , and my entire favour , Yet something I would have in part , for fear your mind should waver : I never will be coy nor nice , but always kind and willing , I can bore something of the price , come pay down thirty Shilling . The Coachman had not quite so much , 'till he receiv'd his wages , He wanted ten , and therefore then , he solemnly engages : That he would make no more delay , but twenty down would tender , And ten another time would pay , if she would but surrender . Then straight they struck a bargain thus , when she receive'd his treasure , And like a drab she drean'd his purse , and yielded to his pleasure : He found she was a crafty Dame , and therefore he did fear her , And also weary of the game , then came no more a near her . When she did find , he was unkind , who called her his honey , She soon was of another mind , to trounce him for her money : It did appear he did not fear , but thought she had but jested , She vowed still to have her will , that he should be arrested . She fetch'd a Warrant for him then , and thus began the rumour , I think there was not one in ten , but laughed at the humour : But when at last the fray was passed , the Taylor he was scorned , And in the rout , the Boys did shout , and told him he was horned . The Taylor he does now complain , that he is daily flouted , But women of the wanton strain , they cannot live without i I would not have him whine nor pine , those reasons are presented , There's some that go in Velvet fine , are forc'd to be contented . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 1685. 