THE States-Man's Almanac : Being and Excellent New BALLAD , in which , the Qualities of each MONTH are Consider'd ; whereby it appears , that a PARLIAMENT cannot meet in any of the Old MONTHS : With a Proposal for mending the KALENDAR , Humbly offered to the Packers of the next PARLIAMENT . To the Tune of Cold and Raw , the North did blow , etc PROLOGUE . I . THE Talk up and down , In Country and Town , Has been long of Parliaments Sitting : But we'll make it clear , Ne'r a Month in the Year , Is proper for such a Meeting . II The Judges declare it , The Ministers swear it , And the Town as a Tale receives i Let 'em say what they can , There's never a Man , Except God's Vicegerent believes it . III . If the Critics in spite , Our Arguments slight ; And think 'em too light for the Master : It has often been known , That Men on a Throne , Has Harrang'd the whole Realm with no better . IV. For in times of old , When Kings were less bold , And made for their faults Excuses : Such Topick's as these , The Commons to please , Did serve for most Excellent Uses . V. Either Christmas came on , Or Harvest begun , And all must repair to their Station : It too dry , or too wet , For the Houses to Fit , And Heigh for a Prorogation . VI . Then , Sir , if you please , With such Reasons as these , Let's see how each Moon is appointed . For though it be strange In all her Change , She Favours not God's Anointed . The ALMANACK , January . I . THE first is to cold , For Popery to hold , Since Southern Climates Improve i And therefore in Frost , 'Tis Odds but its lost , If they offer to remove it . February . II The next do's betide , ( Though then the King dy'd ) Ill luck , and they must not be tampering : For had not Providence quick , Cool'd his Head i'th' Neck , 'Fore God they were all a scampring . March . III . The Month of Old Room , Has and Omen with some ; But the sleeping Wind then Rouzes , And trust not the crowd , When Storms are so loud , lest their Breath infect the Houses . April . IV. In this by Mishap . Southask had a clap , Which pepper'd our Gracious Master : And therefore i'th' Spring , He must Physic his Thing , And venture no new Disaster . May . V. This Month is too good , And too lusty his Blood , To be for Business at leisure , With his Confessors leave , Honest Bridget may give , The Fumbler Royal his Pleasure . June . VI . The Brains of the State , Have been too hight of late , They have manag'd all Business in rapture : And to call us in June , Is much to the same Tune , Being mad to the end of the Chapter . VII . July VII . This Season was made , For Camp , and Parade , Where with the Expense of his Treasures , Of much Sweat and Pains , Discreetly he Trains , Such Men , as will break all his Measures . August . VIII . This Month did advance Our Projects in France , As Bartholomew Remembers , But alas they want force , To take the same Course , With Our Heretical Members . September . IX . They cannot now meet , For the Progress was set , But they find it a scurvy Fashion : To ride , and to ride , To be snub'd and deny'd , By every good man in the Nation . October . X. Now Hunting comes in , That Liscence for since , That do's with a Cloak befriend him , For if the Queen knows , What at Graham's he do's , His Divine Right can hardly defend him , November . XI . November might do , For ought that we know : But that the King promis'd by chance Sirs , And his word before ; Was pawn'd for much more , Then er'e 'twill be able to Answer . December . XII . The last of the year , Resemblance does bear , To their hope's and fortune declining : Ne'er hope for success , Day grows less and less , And the Sun once so high has done shining . EPILOGUE . I . You Gypsies of Room , That run up and down , And with Miracles people Cozen : By the help of some Saint , Get the Month that you want , And make Thirteen of the Dozen . II You see the old Year Wont help yea , 'tis clear , And therefore to save your honour : Get a New Sun and Moon , And the work is half done , And Faith I think not sooner , September the Ist. From the Imperial Camp before Belgrade , to Chavelier Janco DONE Lazarillo . THE States-Man's Almanac : Being and Excellent New BALLAD , in which , the Qualities of each MONTH are Consider'd ; whereby it appears , that a PARLIAMENT cannot meet in any of the Old MONTHS : With a Proposal for mending the KALENDAR , Humbly offered to the Packers of the next PARLIAMENT . To the Tune of Cold and Raw , the North did blow , etc PROLOGUE . I . THE Talk up and down , In Country and Town , Has been long of Parliaments Sitting : But we'll make it clear , Ne'r a Month in the Year , Is proper for such a Meeting . II The Judges declare it , The Ministers swear it , And the Town as a Tale receives i Let 'em say what they can , There's never a Man , Except God's Vicegerent believes it . III . If the Critics in spite , Our Arguments slight ; And think 'em too light for the Master : It has often been known , That Men on a Throne , Has Harrang'd the whole Realm with no better . IV. For in times of old , When Kings were less bold , And made for their faults Excuses : Such Topick's as these , The Commons to please , Did serve for most Excellent Uses . V. Either Christmas came on , Or Harvest begun , And all must repair to their Station : It too dry , or too wet , For the Houses to Fit , And Heigh for a Prorogation . VI . Then , Sir , if you please , With such Reasons as these , Let's see how each Moon is appointed . For though it be strange In all her Change , She Favours not God's Anointed . The ALMANACK , January . I . THE first is to cold , For Popery to hold , Since Southern Climates Improve i And therefore in Frost , 'Tis Odds but its lost , If they offer to remove it . February . II The next do's betide , ( Though then the King dy'd ) Ill luck , and they must not be tampering : For had not Providence quick , Cool'd his Head i'th' Neck , 'Fore God they were all a scampring . March . III . The Month of Old Room , Has and Omen with some ; But the sleeping Wind then Rouzes , And trust not the crowd , When Storms are so loud , lest their Breath infect the Houses . April . IV. In this by Mishap . Southask had a clap , Which pepper'd our Gracious Master : And therefore i'th' Spring , He must Physic his Thing , And venture no new Disaster . May . V. This Month is too good , And too lusty his Blood , To be for Business at leisure , With his Confessors leave , Honest Bridget may give , The Fumbler Royal his Pleasure . June . VI . The Brains of the State , Have been too hight of late , They have manag'd all Business in rapture : And to call us in June , Is much to the same Tune , Being mad to the end of the Chapter . VII . July VII . This Season was made , For Camp , and Parade , Where with the Expense of his Treasures , Of much Sweat and Pains , Discreetly he Trains , Such Men , as will break all his Measures . August . VIII . This Month did advance Our Projects in France , As Bartholomew Remembers , But alas they want force , To take the same Course , With Our Heretical Members . September . IX . They cannot now meet , For the Progress was set , But they find it a scurvy Fashion : To ride , and to ride , To be snub'd and deny'd , By every good man in the Nation . October . X. Now Hunting comes in , That Liscence for since , That do's with a Cloak befriend him , For if the Queen knows , What at Graham's he do's , His Divine Right can hardly defend him , November . XI . November might do , For ought that we know : But that the King promis'd by chance Sirs , And his word before ; Was pawn'd for much more , Then er'e 'twill be able to Answer . December . XII . The last of the year , Resemblance does bear , To their hope's and fortune declining : Ne'er hope for success , Day grows less and less , And the Sun once so high has done shining . EPILOGUE . I . You Gypsies of Room , That run up and down , And with Miracles people Cozen : By the help of some Saint , Get the Month that you want , And make Thirteen of the Dozen . II You see the old Year Wont help yea , 'tis clear , And therefore to save your honour : Get a New Sun and Moon , And the work is half done , And Faith I think not sooner , September the Ist. From the Imperial Camp before Belgrade , to Chavelier Janco DONE Lazarillo . 