The Ruined Lovers . Being a rare Narrative of a young Man that dy'd for his Mistress in June last , who not long after his Death , upon consideration of his entire Affection , and her own Coyness , could not be comforted , but lingered out her days in Melancholy , fell desperate sick and so died . To the Tune of , Mock-Beggers Hall stands empty . MArs shall to Cupid now submit , for he hath gain'd the glory , You that in love were never yet , attend unto my story : For it is new , 'tis strange and true , as ever age afforded , A tale more sad , you never had , in any Books recorded . A Young Man lately lov'd a Maid , more than his life or fortune ; And in her Ears the same convey'd , for thus he did importune : Dear , pity me , the lover cry'd Sweet let thy heart come to me , And often said unto the Maid , love me or you'l undo me . I never was engag'd before . I must and will be true to thee , Love never made me cry and roar , until I saw thy Beauty No creature cou'd of flesh and blood , bring more delight unto ; Makes me to cry perpetually , love me or you'l undo me . He made Addresses to the Maid , and proffered to advance her , I cannot love thee , then she said , pray take it for and answer : In many ways , he sung her praise , Love shot his Arrow through me , Why did not he , do so to me , love me , etc She made him such a strange reply , he durst no more come near her , Quoth he , I will go home and die , since there is nothing dearer , The joys of all the Christian World , ( says he ) are nothing to me , This death only , can set me free , love me , etc He took his Bed , he rag'd and burn'd sure this must greatly grieve her , His scorching love was quickly turn'd into a burning Fever : And then he dy'd , but first he cry'd , O! will she not come to me : Then sheds a tear , his last words were love , me or you'l undo me . THe Virgin when she herd the news was very greatly troubled ; And when the Coffin'd Corpse she views , her woes were all redoubled : And hast thou dy'd for me , she cry'd , thou hast in love outrun me Too late I may , thus sadly say , Thy Death hath quite undone me . Had I a thousand World's , I would give them all to restore thee , For I am guilty of thy blood , how dare I stand before thee , I am a Murderess , woe is me , let all true lovers shun me , And I must cry until I die , thy Death , etc It is in vain for me to live , thy memory will haunt me , I only have a short reprieve , thy sorrows daily daunt me : Wherever thy dead Corpse do lie , since thou in Death hast wone me ; I will be laid a woeful Maid , Thy death , etc With that the tears fell from her Eyes , she could no longer bear it , For love and death does tyrannise , she could no longer bear i Pray have me home to bed , she cry'd , my sorrows over-rune me , I am rewarded for my Pride , Thy death , etc She took her bed , and in her head , a thousand frantic Dreams are , Sadly she lies , and in her Eyes , a hundred flowing streams are : What wretched Soul am I , said she , Oh whither am I going : Poor Soul she cry'd , and so she dy'd , thy death , etc Let all fair Maids that are in love , by this poor Soul take warning , Lest that like her , you sadly prove , the purchase of her scorning , Let all by this mend what's amiss , before Grief overrun you ; Lest you be forc'd to die and cry , thy death hath quite undone me . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J.M. and A.M. The Ruined Lovers . Being a rare Narrative of a young Man that dy'd for his Mistress in June last , who not long after his Death , upon consideration of his entire Affection , and her own Coyness , could not be comforted , but lingered out her days in Melancholy , fell desperate sick and so died . To the Tune of , Mock-Beggers Hall stands empty . MArs shall to Cupid now submit , for he hath gain'd the glory , You that in love were never yet , attend unto my story : For it is new , 'tis strange and true , as ever age afforded , A tale more sad , you never had , in any Books recorded . A Young Man lately lov'd a Maid , more than his life or fortune ; And in her Ears the same convey'd , for thus he did importune : Dear , pity me , the lover cry'd Sweet let thy heart come to me , And often said unto the Maid , love me or you'l undo me . I never was engag'd before . I must and will be true to thee , Love never made me cry and roar , until I saw thy Beauty No creature cou'd of flesh and blood , bring more delight unto ; Makes me to cry perpetually , love me or you'l undo me . He made Addresses to the Maid , and proffered to advance her , I cannot love thee , then she said , pray take it for and answer : In many ways , he sung her praise , Love shot his Arrow through me , Why did not he , do so to me , love me , etc She made him such a strange reply , he durst no more come near her , Quoth he , I will go home and die , since there is nothing dearer , The joys of all the Christian World , ( says he ) are nothing to me , This death only , can set me free , love me , etc He took his Bed , he rag'd and burn'd sure this must greatly grieve her , His scorching love was quickly turn'd into a burning Fever : And then he dy'd , but first he cry'd , O! will she not come to me : Then sheds a tear , his last words were love , me or you'l undo me . THe Virgin when she herd the news was very greatly troubled ; And when the Coffin'd Corpse she views , her woes were all redoubled : And hast thou dy'd for me , she cry'd , thou hast in love outrun me Too late I may , thus sadly say , Thy Death hath quite undone me . Had I a thousand World's , I would give them all to restore thee , For I am guilty of thy blood , how dare I stand before thee , I am a Murderess , woe is me , let all true lovers shun me , And I must cry until I die , thy Death , etc It is in vain for me to live , thy memory will haunt me , I only have a short reprieve , thy sorrows daily daunt me : Wherever thy dead Corpse do lie , since thou in Death hast wone me ; I will be laid a woeful Maid , Thy death , etc With that the tears fell from her Eyes , she could no longer bear it , For love and death does tyrannise , she could no longer bear i Pray have me home to bed , she cry'd , my sorrows over-rune me , I am rewarded for my Pride , Thy death , etc She took her bed , and in her head , a thousand frantic Dreams are , Sadly she lies , and in her Eyes , a hundred flowing streams are : What wretched Soul am I , said she , Oh whither am I going : Poor Soul she cry'd , and so she dy'd , thy death , etc Let all fair Maids that are in love , by this poor Soul take warning , Lest that like her , you sadly prove , the purchase of her scorning , Let all by this mend what's amiss , before Grief overrun you ; Lest you be forc'd to die and cry , thy death hath quite undone me . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J.M. and A.M. 