Come to it at last Or the successful Adventurer . A pleasant and delightful New Song . In vain resistances when love designs He by compulsion or compliance joins , Laughs at what e're opposes his decree And what says must , that must surely be . A pleasant new Tune , Or , tell me Jenny . TEll me Jenny , tell me roundly , when you will your Heart surrender : Faith and troth isle love you soundly ; 'tis I that was the first Pretender . Ne'r say nay , nor delay , here's my heart , and there's my hand too ; All that's mine shall be thine , Body and Goods at your Command too . Ah! how many Maids ( quoth Jenny ) have you promis'd to be true to ? Fie , I think the Devil's in you , to kiss a body so as you do . What do you do ? let me go , I can't abide such foolish doing ; Get you gone , naughty man , fie , is this your way in wooing ? Prithee Jenny don't deny me ; whence this coyness ? why these blushes ? Sure you use them but to try me , and they suit not with your wishes : Do not frown , but fit down on this Primrose-Bed , my Sweating , And , my Love , this shall prove to thee and me a happy meeting . How many Maids ( that have believed this , quoth Jenny , as your meaning ) Have you heretofore deceived ? yet you think it is no sinning . Fie ; I say , stand away , naughty Man , I hate such fooling : Fie ; Oh sad ! I think you'r mad to rumple a body thus with pulling . 'Tis unkind you thus deny me when I tell you that I love you ; Fit you down , and do but try me , and you better will approve me : Come my Jenny , best of any , in your Trueloves Arms i'le place you ; Sighs not thus , but let's buss , Love and Hymen both shall grace you . This ( quoth Jenny ) is but your saying , you men are false 'tis often prov'd , so Poor Maids you long to be betraying ; Oh fie , I won't be lov'd so . What d'ye do ? let me go , Fie , naughty man , fie , let me lose : Oh! bless me , how you press me , I think you'r wild to hug one thus . In your eyes I see a yielding , I prithee do not thus dissemble , Nor your heart with doubt be sheilding , but the queen of Love resemble : See my Arms wait your charms , and I must have no denial ; Say not nay , nor delay , but of my passion make a trial . What is it you wou'd be doing ? pish , I can no longer tarry ; Nay , forbear , is this your wooing ? avads I wo' not till I marry ; Nay , I won't , pray now don't , O me ! fie , nay this evil ; Oh! what's this ? I profess you grow more and more uncivil . The god of Love gives commission , and these pleasant shades invite us ; Nay , you must grant my kind Petition , since to love all things incite us : My Dear Heart , do not start , joys attend you , transports seize you ; Still to you i'le be true in your Arms ; thus ever please you . Oh! you hurt me , nay , forbear now , what d'ye do , you have betray'd me ; Oh! i'm ruin'd , and I fear now you'r about for to un-Maid me : Take your course , use your force , kill me , kill me , if you please : Nay isle die willingly , in this sweet Death I find such ease . Printed for J Wright , J Clark , W Thackery , and TO Passenger . Come to it at last Or the successful Adventurer . A pleasant and delightful New Song . In vain resistances when love designs He by compulsion or compliance joins , Laughs at what e're opposes his decree And what says must , that must surely be . A pleasant new Tune , Or , tell me Jenny . TEll me Jenny , tell me roundly , when you will your Heart surrender : Faith and troth isle love you soundly ; 'tis I that was the first Pretender . Ne'r say nay , nor delay , here's my heart , and there's my hand too ; All that's mine shall be thine , Body and Goods at your Command too . Ah! how many Maids ( quoth Jenny ) have you promis'd to be true to ? Fie , I think the Devil's in you , to kiss a body so as you do . What do you do ? let me go , I can't abide such foolish doing ; Get you gone , naughty man , fie , is this your way in wooing ? Prithee Jenny don't deny me ; whence this coyness ? why these blushes ? Sure you use them but to try me , and they suit not with your wishes : Do not frown , but fit down on this Primrose-Bed , my Sweating , And , my Love , this shall prove to thee and me a happy meeting . How many Maids ( that have believed this , quoth Jenny , as your meaning ) Have you heretofore deceived ? yet you think it is no sinning . Fie ; I say , stand away , naughty Man , I hate such fooling : Fie ; Oh sad ! I think you'r mad to rumple a body thus with pulling . 'Tis unkind you thus deny me when I tell you that I love you ; Fit you down , and do but try me , and you better will approve me : Come my Jenny , best of any , in your Trueloves Arms i'le place you ; Sighs not thus , but let's buss , Love and Hymen both shall grace you . This ( quoth Jenny ) is but your saying , you men are false 'tis often prov'd , so Poor Maids you long to be betraying ; Oh fie , I won't be lov'd so . What d'ye do ? let me go , Fie , naughty man , fie , let me lose : Oh! bless me , how you press me , I think you'r wild to hug one thus . In your eyes I see a yielding , I prithee do not thus dissemble , Nor your heart with doubt be sheilding , but the queen of Love resemble : See my Arms wait your charms , and I must have no denial ; Say not nay , nor delay , but of my passion make a trial . What is it you wou'd be doing ? pish , I can no longer tarry ; Nay , forbear , is this your wooing ? avads I wo' not till I marry ; Nay , I won't , pray now don't , O me ! fie , nay this evil ; Oh! what's this ? I profess you grow more and more uncivil . The god of Love gives commission , and these pleasant shades invite us ; Nay , you must grant my kind Petition , since to love all things incite us : My Dear Heart , do not start , joys attend you , transports seize you ; Still to you i'le be true in your Arms ; thus ever please you . Oh! you hurt me , nay , forbear now , what d'ye do , you have betray'd me ; Oh! i'm ruin'd , and I fear now you'r about for to un-Maid me : Take your course , use your force , kill me , kill me , if you please : Nay isle die willingly , in this sweet Death I find such ease . Printed for J Wright , J Clark , W Thackery , and TO Passenger . 