Love's Lamentable Tragedy : When cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great Sorrow they procure . But such strange Pains the Slighted find That they cannot endure , To a pleasant new play house Tune TEnder Hearts of London City Now be mov'd with grief & pity since by Love I am undone , Now I languish in my Anguish , too too soon my Heart was wone , By him I am strangely slighted In whom I so long delighted , he unkindly shows Disdain , And my Grief is past Relief . alas my Heart will break with pain Daemon you my Passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel , first my Heart to set on fire , Then to leave me , and deceive me , when I granted your desire Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you When I depart with broken Heart , then all your Comforts bid adieu , Thou shalt never be contented But by Night and Day tormented , since thou wertenberg so false to me ; Celia dying thus lay crying . I will be a Plague to thee . Down her cheeks the Tears did trikle , Blaming Daemon too too fickle , till her tender Heart was broke : Discontented thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke , When this News to him was carried , All his Joys were spoil'd and marred and his Heart was fill'd with pain , Still expressing what a Blessing he had lost by his Disdain . The Young Man's Answer . O ! you powers be kind unto me Else my Sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in Mind : I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was Loving , Chaste , and Kind . Now methinks I'm strangely daunted , By her Ghost I shall be haunted wheresoever I do go , I shall see her mine own Dear , since I wrought her Overthrow , Thus he pausing stood and thinking Looking as if he were sinking , while his Countenance grew pale , Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for methinks my Spirits faill , In his Conscience he was wounded , And his Senses were confounded , Tears ran trickling from his Eye But his Sorrow pierc'd him thorough : then he vow'd for Love to die . Then his Joints began to shiver , Straight he walks unto a River . there to built his watery Tomb Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come I come . FINIS . Love's Lamentable Tragedy : When cruel Lovers prove unkind , Great Sorrow they procure . But such strange Pains the Slighted find That they cannot endure , To a pleasant new play house Tune TEnder Hearts of London City Now be mov'd with grief & pity since by Love I am undone , Now I languish in my Anguish , too too soon my Heart was wone , By him I am strangely slighted In whom I so long delighted , he unkindly shows Disdain , And my Grief is past Relief . alas my Heart will break with pain Daemon you my Passion knew well , How then could you be so cruel , first my Heart to set on fire , Then to leave me , and deceive me , when I granted your desire Come and see me as I'm lying , Bleeding for your sake and dying , yet my Ghost shall trouble you When I depart with broken Heart , then all your Comforts bid adieu , Thou shalt never be contented But by Night and Day tormented , since thou wertenberg so false to me ; Celia dying thus lay crying . I will be a Plague to thee . Down her cheeks the Tears did trikle , Blaming Daemon too too fickle , till her tender Heart was broke : Discontented thus she fainted , yielding to Death's fatal stroke , When this News to him was carried , All his Joys were spoil'd and marred and his Heart was fill'd with pain , Still expressing what a Blessing he had lost by his Disdain . The Young Man's Answer . O ! you powers be kind unto me Else my Sorrows will undo me , I am so perplexed in Mind : I deny'd her , and defy'd her , that was Loving , Chaste , and Kind . Now methinks I'm strangely daunted , By her Ghost I shall be haunted wheresoever I do go , I shall see her mine own Dear , since I wrought her Overthrow , Thus he pausing stood and thinking Looking as if he were sinking , while his Countenance grew pale , Death come ease me , quickly seize me , for methinks my Spirits faill , In his Conscience he was wounded , And his Senses were confounded , Tears ran trickling from his Eye But his Sorrow pierc'd him thorough : then he vow'd for Love to die . Then his Joints began to shiver , Straight he walks unto a River . there to built his watery Tomb Often crying , and replying , Celia now I come I come . FINIS . 