REFLECTIONS UPON The Catholic Ballad . SInce Drolling is grown , such a Trade in the Town , That the Press goes without a Corrector ; Sirs , have at your Sins , Here's a Gamester begins , Who Rhimes at the Rate of a Hector . That ( What do you call it ? ) The Catholic Ballad , Where Puns hang like Pebbles in Halter : 'Mongst many that read it , it gain'd so much Credit , It may pass for a COFFE-HOUSE Psalter . Men's Humours , alas ! are come to that pass ; He writes best , who scribbles most foully , With Sots and Buffoons , such paltry Lampoons Please better than Dryden or Cowly . 'Tis the Subject that takes , and the Matter that makes The thing fell , not the Skill of the Songster : But that impudent Whore , who befould Lilly's Door , Is not more unknown than this Youngster . Some would ha't a Divine , a old Friend of mine , But , if so , surely't had been more witty , And that Son of the Kirk , would have given a vile jerk To the Mass-men for Firing the City . But this Bonny Blade , to his Muse calls for Aid , Who brings him her Lap full of Meeters : He that hears them would swear , such Doggerel Gear Dropped down from the Scull of Hugh Peters . Ridiculous Niget , to scoff at St. Bridget , Saying , He needs not her Assistance , But he that will Fool , with a Romish Edge-tool , Had need keep himself at a Distance . Let the Citizens flout , and the Country cry out , The Papists appeal from this Sentence , And say , 'Tis not fair , the Porphyry Chair Should be judg'd by the Stool of Repentance . If some will aver , the Pope cannot err , No Reason to Laugh at their Folly , When not one Quaker of ten , but believes William Penn As infallible , and twice as Holy . I mean William Penn , that Wonder of Men , ( If himself be not over-conceited ) Who leads in his Lines , one and twenty Divines , Like Bears to the Stake to be baited . Yet I'le not persuade , to the Rosary Trade , For can I do anything Madder ? Than to bid you Adieu , like a Tike in a Teugh , And Die with a slip from a Ladder . But , if you'l bewitch , the World and grow rich , I advice you to Quaking or Dipping , Or the sanctifi'd Sniveling , that kind of Mock-Deviling 'Tis better than Fasting and Whipping . They'l not be content , to be curb'd by a Lent , Good People , I'le tell you the Reason , Their work must go on , both now and anon , For Sedgwicking's n'er out of Season . And when they transgress , they scorn to Confess , Which is a Popish Intrusion , They think to Rebel , and not go to Hell , For want of and Absolution . For in such a case , the King's Act of Grace , Is the best Cure that ever was herd on : Which Jolly old SMEC may swear by his neck , Is more sweet than a Catholic Pardon . If they have god there , Saint Peter's old Chair , Let 'em keep it , 'tis pity to wrong 'em , When our nimble Sprites , that talk of new lights , Have Judas his Lantern among 'em . He shall preach that's no Priest , and hunt Anti-christ Quite through the Revelation . While we take the Church , and throw't out at the Porch , O , Politic Reformation ! The Box at the Door , that holds Alms for the Poor , Is and Eyesore to our Spirit , For in it there lurks , the Doctrine of Works , That Men may be sav'd by their Merit . The Communion Table , we'l quickly disable , And the Font that looks like and old Roman , All down shall be thrown , but the Pulpit alone , And the Pulpit itself shall be common . Our Cobblers shall teach , and our Weavers shall preach , Things fit for the Hangman or Printer : Nay ( more than all this ) every Malepert Cis Shall bolt Motives as loud as the Hinter . For there's but one way , their Tongues to allay , Accustomed to speak what they please-a . Then if thon wouldst know ( man ) how to silence a woman Thou mayest learn of * Theodore Beza . * Basiolo ta - cebit imo . Anglice , Kiss her A --- to quiet her . The stout spirit Byard , will never be Tyr'd , In the work of the Day he's grown Bolder , Than the Long-bearded Clerk , who carry'd the Mark Of his Martyrdom upon his Shoulder . Much more might be say'd , but that I'm afraid Of awaking the Wasps of the Nation : Let thus much of Rhime , suffice for this Time , Without Use or Application . London , Printed for E.T. and are to be sold in Little-Britain . 1675. REFLECTIONS UPON The Catholic Ballad . SInce Drolling is grown , such a Trade in the Town , That the Press goes without a Corrector ; Sirs , have at your Sins , Here's a Gamester begins , Who Rhimes at the Rate of a Hector . That ( What do you call it ? ) The Catholic Ballad , Where Puns hang like Pebbles in Halter : 'Mongst many that read it , it gain'd so much Credit , It may pass for a COFFE-HOUSE Psalter . Men's Humours , alas ! are come to that pass ; He writes best , who scribbles most foully , With Sots and Buffoons , such paltry Lampoons Please better than Dryden or Cowly . 'Tis the Subject that takes , and the Matter that makes The thing fell , not the Skill of the Songster : But that impudent Whore , who befould Lilly's Door , Is not more unknown than this Youngster . Some would ha't a Divine , a old Friend of mine , But , if so , surely't had been more witty , And that Son of the Kirk , would have given a vile jerk To the Mass-men for Firing the City . But this Bonny Blade , to his Muse calls for Aid , Who brings him her Lap full of Meeters : He that hears them would swear , such Doggerel Gear Dropped down from the Scull of Hugh Peters . Ridiculous Niget , to scoff at St. Bridget , Saying , He needs not her Assistance , But he that will Fool , with a Romish Edge-tool , Had need keep himself at a Distance . Let the Citizens flout , and the Country cry out , The Papists appeal from this Sentence , And say , 'Tis not fair , the Porphyry Chair Should be judg'd by the Stool of Repentance . If some will aver , the Pope cannot err , No Reason to Laugh at their Folly , When not one Quaker of ten , but believes William Penn As infallible , and twice as Holy . I mean William Penn , that Wonder of Men , ( If himself be not over-conceited ) Who leads in his Lines , one and twenty Divines , Like Bears to the Stake to be baited . Yet I'le not persuade , to the Rosary Trade , For can I do anything Madder ? Than to bid you Adieu , like a Tike in a Teugh , And Die with a slip from a Ladder . But , if you'l bewitch , the World and grow rich , I advice you to Quaking or Dipping , Or the sanctifi'd Sniveling , that kind of Mock-Deviling 'Tis better than Fasting and Whipping . They'l not be content , to be curb'd by a Lent , Good People , I'le tell you the Reason , Their work must go on , both now and anon , For Sedgwicking's n'er out of Season . And when they transgress , they scorn to Confess , Which is a Popish Intrusion , They think to Rebel , and not go to Hell , For want of and Absolution . For in such a case , the King's Act of Grace , Is the best Cure that ever was herd on : Which Jolly old SMEC may swear by his neck , Is more sweet than a Catholic Pardon . If they have god there , Saint Peter's old Chair , Let 'em keep it , 'tis pity to wrong 'em , When our nimble Sprites , that talk of new lights , Have Judas his Lantern among 'em . He shall preach that's no Priest , and hunt Anti-christ Quite through the Revelation . While we take the Church , and throw't out at the Porch , O , Politic Reformation ! The Box at the Door , that holds Alms for the Poor , Is and Eyesore to our Spirit , For in it there lurks , the Doctrine of Works , That Men may be sav'd by their Merit . The Communion Table , we'l quickly disable , And the Font that looks like and old Roman , All down shall be thrown , but the Pulpit alone , And the Pulpit itself shall be common . Our Cobblers shall teach , and our Weavers shall preach , Things fit for the Hangman or Printer : Nay ( more than all this ) every Malepert Cis Shall bolt Motives as loud as the Hinter . For there's but one way , their Tongues to allay , Accustomed to speak what they please-a . Then if thon wouldst know ( man ) how to silence a woman Thou mayest learn of * Theodore Beza . * Basiolo ta - cebit imo . Anglice , Kiss her A --- to quiet her . The stout spirit Byard , will never be Tyr'd , In the work of the Day he's grown Bolder , Than the Long-bearded Clerk , who carry'd the Mark Of his Martyrdom upon his Shoulder . Much more might be say'd , but that I'm afraid Of awaking the Wasps of the Nation : Let thus much of Rhime , suffice for this Time , Without Use or Application . London , Printed for E.T. and are to be sold in Little-Britain . 1675. 