A New Poem , To condole the going away of his Excellency the Am - bassador , from the Emperor of Fez. and Morocco , to his own Country . By a person of Quality . SIR , my Muse bid you welcome when you come , And now's concern'd at your going home ; Love always tending to a noble eye , Like to a Shepherd looking on the Sky . Your comely person , and ingenious parts Has by a Magick-Spell conjur'd up hearts : So they did appear , and show their faces , Towards you , when in your Pomp and Laces . Th' Morocco Ambassador th' Nation did cry , Was a man truly worthy of Glory ; That where he went wanted no Servants at all , People would be with him , both low or tall ; They thought they could not do too much for him , A man as liberal as a flowing Spring , Resolving to see this Ambassador great , The like they know it has not been of late . Stay , Stay , Dearest Sir , a little longer , If you do , our love too will grow stronger : Therefore we wish your Excellence good Health , Peace , and Enjoyment , and great store of Wealth , And a good Voyage , kind and pleasant Gales , That so your Ship may avoid the mighty Whale's , And escape all dangers , that AEolus can Show to a Gent , or any other man ; Whereby with pleasure , and with greater joy , You may rejoice without the least annoy , And when into your own Country do come , Trumpets and Music , and also too th' Drum ; Shall bid you welcome to your own dear Land , And the King himself take you by the hand , Saying , Dear Brother , your welcome to me , Your absence made my happiness , my misery . But since you're come , I'll now cheer up again , So shines th' Sun after a Show'r of Rain . I'm come , I've made a Peace with England's King , In which , we both were pleased in everything . I had the favour both of Court and City , And was beloved of all th' men called witty ; And like Dove , I bring th' Olive-branch of Peace , A Pledge from the great Monarch of the World ; So we shall have a continual Truce With England , and its gay Flower De Luce ; For which you have th' thanks of each English heart , Paid to you as a man of Mighty Art ; But after this , so soon for to be gone , It troubles us , though much of him have wone ; And ( 2 ) And even could desire to live no more , Since true Love's gone , from off the English Shore ; Telling us , whither our joys be great or small , Are fleeting , as they are Terrestrial . Fortune is shown upon a Globe of brass And each worldly joy's like a piece of glass ; Of small substance , wanting a noble weight , It rides below , it's but of little height , Of smaller valve , and of lesser prize , Therefore , wit is all in all when 'tis wife . Since all things uncertain and inconstant be , Like to the bird when on the Wing we see , Flies from the Oak , unto the Cherry Tree , And constant in nothing but in inconstancy . Therefore in all things we must be content ; Since that our Friends are to us still but lent , And by th' Powers above to us are sent , Showing the wings of pleasure , are its punishment . This Nature teaches from her motions high , And yields to us by her most beauteous eye ; The day by constant motion moves into Night , Tacks but about , and throws upon us Light ; So by a repetition of Atoms does return , That bright thing where first that it begun . The Swallow Travels , and hither does come ; When Winter rises he then too goes home : And th' fairest Flower withereth away , For Nature does not always work but play . So man is sometime here , and sometime there , Shows but himself , and so does disappear . A lively Emblem of the things above , 'Tis so below , for the Creations Love . The business is , mutation does appear In Men , bruits , birds , and Planets of the Year . Thus everything is given to revolution , By common instinct , and by Worldly motion ; Friends and Relations all vanish away , As Country men when drunk , they wont make Hay , But tumble and toss this way and th' other , Anywhere to see a neighbour or a brother ; To drown sadness , and their melancholy , Yet on th' next day they became more jolly . Th' Moral teaches how fickle's men abided , Like the Ant on the Grass , or Snake upon the Road ; Till god to his own Country , and dear home , And arriv'd in bright friendships Dining-Room ; In th' Jerusalem above , in that place , Where Angels and true Lovers see their face , And lie basking themselves on that bright shore In joy , and great pleasure , for evermore . W.W. A New Poem , To condole the going away of his Excellency the Am - bassador , from the Emperor of Fez. and Morocco , to his own Country . By a person of Quality . SIR , my Muse bid you welcome when you come , And now's concern'd at your going home ; Love always tending to a noble eye , Like to a Shepherd looking on the Sky . Your comely person , and ingenious parts Has by a Magick-Spell conjur'd up hearts : So they did appear , and show their faces , Towards you , when in your Pomp and Laces . Th' Morocco Ambassador th' Nation did cry , Was a man truly worthy of Glory ; That where he went wanted no Servants at all , People would be with him , both low or tall ; They thought they could not do too much for him , A man as liberal as a flowing Spring , Resolving to see this Ambassador great , The like they know it has not been of late . Stay , Stay , Dearest Sir , a little longer , If you do , our love too will grow stronger : Therefore we wish your Excellence good Health , Peace , and Enjoyment , and great store of Wealth , And a good Voyage , kind and pleasant Gales , That so your Ship may avoid the mighty Whale's , And escape all dangers , that AEolus can Show to a Gent , or any other man ; Whereby with pleasure , and with greater joy , You may rejoice without the least annoy , And when into your own Country do come , Trumpets and Music , and also too th' Drum ; Shall bid you welcome to your own dear Land , And the King himself take you by the hand , Saying , Dear Brother , your welcome to me , Your absence made my happiness , my misery . But since you're come , I'll now cheer up again , So shines th' Sun after a Show'r of Rain . I'm come , I've made a Peace with England's King , In which , we both were pleased in everything . I had the favour both of Court and City , And was beloved of all th' men called witty ; And like Dove , I bring th' Olive-branch of Peace , A Pledge from the great Monarch of the World ; So we shall have a continual Truce With England , and its gay Flower De Luce ; For which you have th' thanks of each English heart , Paid to you as a man of Mighty Art ; But after this , so soon for to be gone , It troubles us , though much of him have wone ; And ( 2 ) And even could desire to live no more , Since true Love's gone , from off the English Shore ; Telling us , whither our joys be great or small , Are fleeting , as they are Terrestrial . Fortune is shown upon a Globe of brass And each worldly joy's like a piece of glass ; Of small substance , wanting a noble weight , It rides below , it's but of little height , Of smaller valve , and of lesser prize , Therefore , wit is all in all when 'tis wife . Since all things uncertain and inconstant be , Like to the bird when on the Wing we see , Flies from the Oak , unto the Cherry Tree , And constant in nothing but in inconstancy . Therefore in all things we must be content ; Since that our Friends are to us still but lent , And by th' Powers above to us are sent , Showing the wings of pleasure , are its punishment . This Nature teaches from her motions high , And yields to us by her most beauteous eye ; The day by constant motion moves into Night , Tacks but about , and throws upon us Light ; So by a repetition of Atoms does return , That bright thing where first that it begun . The Swallow Travels , and hither does come ; When Winter rises he then too goes home : And th' fairest Flower withereth away , For Nature does not always work but play . So man is sometime here , and sometime there , Shows but himself , and so does disappear . A lively Emblem of the things above , 'Tis so below , for the Creations Love . The business is , mutation does appear In Men , bruits , birds , and Planets of the Year . Thus everything is given to revolution , By common instinct , and by Worldly motion ; Friends and Relations all vanish away , As Country men when drunk , they wont make Hay , But tumble and toss this way and th' other , Anywhere to see a neighbour or a brother ; To drown sadness , and their melancholy , Yet on th' next day they became more jolly . Th' Moral teaches how fickle's men abided , Like the Ant on the Grass , or Snake upon the Road ; Till god to his own Country , and dear home , And arriv'd in bright friendships Dining-Room ; In th' Jerusalem above , in that place , Where Angels and true Lovers see their face , And lie basking themselves on that bright shore In joy , and great pleasure , for evermore . W.W. 