The Dame of Honour ; Or , Hospitality . Sung by Mrs. Willis , in the Opera call'd , The Kingdom of the BIRDS . SInce now the world's turn'd upside down , And all things chang'd in Nature , As if a doubt was newly grown We had the same Creator : Of ancient modes , and former ways , I'll teach you , Sirs , the manner ; In good Queen Bess's golden days , When I was a Dame of Honour . I had a noble country seat , Tho' now it is come to ruin , Where mutton , beef , and such good meat In halls were daily chewing : Of humming beer my cellar full , I was a yearly donor ; Where toping Knaves had many a pull , When I was a Dame of Honour . My men of homespun honest greys , Had coats and comely Badges ; They wore no dirty ragged Lace , Nor ne'er complain'd for Wages : For gaudy fringe , and silks of the town , I fear'd no threatening dunner But wore a decent grogram gown , When I was a Dame of Honour . I never thought Cantharides Ingredient good in posset , Nor never stripped me to my stays , To play the punk at Basset ; In Ratafee ne'er made debauch , Nor reel'd like topping Gunner , Nor let my mercer seize my coach , When I was a Dame of Honour . I still preserv'd my maiden fame , In spite of oaths and lying , Tho' many a long-chin'd youngster came , And fain would be enjoying : My fan to guard my lips I kept , From Cupid's rude o'er-runner , And many a Roman nose I rapp'd When I was a Dame of Honour . My curling locks I never bought Of Beggars dirty daughters , Nor prompted by a wanton thought , Above-knee ty'd my Garters : I never glow'd with painted pride , Like punk when the Devil has wone her , Nor prov'd a cheat to be a Bride , When I was a Dame of Honour . My neighbours still I treated round , And strangers that came near me , The poor too always welcome found , Whose prayers did still endear me : Let therefore who at Court would be , No churl , nor yet no fawner : Match in old hospitality Queen Bess's Dams of Honour . The Dame of Honour ; Or , Hospitality . Sung by Mrs. Willis , in the Opera call'd , The Kingdom of the BIRDS . SInce now the world's turn'd upside down , And all things chang'd in Nature , As if a doubt was newly grown We had the same Creator : Of ancient modes , and former ways , I'll teach you , Sirs , the manner ; In good Queen Bess's golden days , When I was a Dame of Honour . I had a noble country seat , Tho' now it is come to ruin , Where mutton , beef , and such good meat In halls were daily chewing : Of humming beer my cellar full , I was a yearly donor ; Where toping Knaves had many a pull , When I was a Dame of Honour . My men of homespun honest greys , Had coats and comely Badges ; They wore no dirty ragged Lace , Nor ne'er complain'd for Wages : For gaudy fringe , and silks of the town , I fear'd no threatening dunner But wore a decent grogram gown , When I was a Dame of Honour . I never thought Cantharides Ingredient good in posset , Nor never stripped me to my stays , To play the punk at Basset ; In Ratafee ne'er made debauch , Nor reel'd like topping Gunner , Nor let my mercer seize my coach , When I was a Dame of Honour . I still preserv'd my maiden fame , In spite of oaths and lying , Tho' many a long-chin'd youngster came , And fain would be enjoying : My fan to guard my lips I kept , From Cupid's rude o'er-runner , And many a Roman nose I rapp'd When I was a Dame of Honour . My curling locks I never bought Of Beggars dirty daughters , Nor prompted by a wanton thought , Above-knee ty'd my Garters : I never glow'd with painted pride , Like punk when the Devil has wone her , Nor prov'd a cheat to be a Bride , When I was a Dame of Honour . My neighbours still I treated round , And strangers that came near me , The poor too always welcome found , Whose prayers did still endear me : Let therefore who at Court would be , No churl , nor yet no fawner : Match in old hospitality Queen Bess's Dams of Honour . The Dame of Honour ; Or , Hospitality . Sung by Mrs. Willis , in the Opera call'd , The Kingdom of the BIRDS . SInce now the world's turn'd upside down , And all things chang'd in Nature , As if a doubt was newly grown We had the same Creator : Of ancient modes , and former ways , I'll teach you , Sirs , the manner ; In good Queen Bess's golden days , When I was a Dame of Honour . I had a noble country seat , Tho' now it is come to ruin , Where mutton , beef , and such good meat In halls were daily chewing : Of humming beer my cellar full , I was a yearly donor ; Where toping Knaves had many a pull , When I was a Dame of Honour . My men of homespun honest greys , Had coats and comely Badges ; They wore no dirty ragged Lace , Nor ne'er complain'd for Wages : For gaudy fringe , and silks of the town , I fear'd no threatening dunner But wore a decent grogram gown , When I was a Dame of Honour . I never thought Cantharides Ingredient good in posset , Nor never stripped me to my stays , To play the punk at Basset ; In Ratafee ne'er made debauch , Nor reel'd like topping Gunner , Nor let my mercer seize my coach , When I was a Dame of Honour . I still preserv'd my maiden fame , In spite of oaths and lying , Tho' many a long-chin'd youngster came , And fain would be enjoying : My fan to guard my lips I kept , From Cupid's rude o'er-runner , And many a Roman nose I rapp'd When I was a Dame of Honour . My curling locks I never bought Of Beggars dirty daughters , Nor prompted by a wanton thought , Above-knee ty'd my Garters : I never glow'd with painted pride , Like punk when the Devil has wone her , Nor prov'd a cheat to be a Bride , When I was a Dame of Honour . My neighbours still I treated round , And strangers that came near me , The poor too always welcome found , Whose prayers did still endear me : Let therefore who at Court would be , No churl , nor yet no fawner : Match in old hospitality Queen Bess's Dams of Honour . The Dame of Honour ; Or , Hospitality . Sung by Mrs. Willis , in the Opera call'd , The Kingdom of the BIRDS . SInce now the world's turn'd upside down , And all things chang'd in Nature , As if a doubt was newly grown We had the same Creator : Of ancient modes , and former ways , I'll teach you , Sirs , the manner ; In good Queen Bess's golden days , When I was a Dame of Honour . I had a noble country seat , Tho' now it is come to ruin , Where mutton , beef , and such good meat In halls were daily chewing : Of humming beer my cellar full , I was a yearly donor ; Where toping Knaves had many a pull , When I was a Dame of Honour . My men of homespun honest greys , Had coats and comely Badges ; They wore no dirty ragged Lace , Nor ne'er complain'd for Wages : For gaudy fringe , and silks of the town , I fear'd no threatening dunner But wore a decent grogram gown , When I was a Dame of Honour . I never thought Cantharides Ingredient good in posset , Nor never stripped me to my stays , To play the punk at Basset ; In Ratafee ne'er made debauch , Nor reel'd like topping Gunner , Nor let my mercer seize my coach , When I was a Dame of Honour . I still preserv'd my maiden fame , In spite of oaths and lying , Tho' many a long-chin'd youngster came , And fain would be enjoying : My fan to guard my lips I kept , From Cupid's rude o'er-runner , And many a Roman nose I rapp'd When I was a Dame of Honour . My curling locks I never bought Of Beggars dirty daughters , Nor prompted by a wanton thought , Above-knee ty'd my Garters : I never glow'd with painted pride , Like punk when the Devil has wone her , Nor prov'd a cheat to be a Bride , When I was a Dame of Honour . My neighbours still I treated round , And strangers that came near me , The poor too always welcome found , Whose prayers did still endear me : Let therefore who at Court would be , No churl , nor yet no fawner : Match in old hospitality Queen Bess's Dams of Honour . 