The Politic Countryman . Plainly setting forth the many misfortunes of those men who have missed of their aims in choosing a wife , also discovering the vast difference be - tween the London Mistress's and the Country Dams . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we , Or , Jenny Gin . SInce Women they are grown so bad I'le led a single life , Not one in ten there's to be had will make a careful wife : Therefore I think 'tis best for me single for to remain , For some are bound and would be free , but wishes are in vain . One man he hath a scolding wife , that ne'r will quiet be ; But wearies him out of his life : o ! what ill luck had he To marry one whose wicked tongue does cause him to complain , But knows not how to ease his wrong since mourning is in vain . Another hath a drunken wife that spends all she comes near , And drunkenness oft breeds strife , it plainly does appear : And let him chide her all he can , a Sot she will remain , And he cannot be freed again , all vexing is in vain . Another hath a wanton one , whose lust he can't suffice ; And good men are too oft undone by such , whose ruling eyes On all men gaze ; as if they could by looks their wills obtain , And never will do what they should : good Counsel is in vain . Another hath and idle pack that will not get her Bred , Nor keep good Clothes upon her back , but loves to lie in bed : Good Counsel she does still refuse , reproof she does disdain , Her friends she strangely will abuse that checks her , though in vain . But he that with a Slut does meet hath the worst luck of all , She stinks as she does walk the street , her nasty beast they call : And if you strive to make her neat , then will she scold amain ; That with her you dare hardly eat , to help this 'tis in vain . Then you that have good careful wives esteem them as a prize , Tender them as you do your lives , or Apples of your eyes : For it a certain Treasure proves , and love will there remain , There's nothing that their love removes ; all strivings are in vain . Oh! give to me the Country lass that loves the Milking-paile , For she'l be constant , and alas ! nought can with her prevail : She loves the man that drives the Blow , and sometime sows the grain , He that to her does make a vow his love is not in vain . The lusty lad that stoutly Bows , he loves the Dairy maid ; She's constant , wherefoe're she goes no wantonness is played : All looseness she does clear despise . and looseness does disdain , The Plowman she does Idolise , she loves , but not in vain . Now to conclude , and speak my mind , pray count it not a jest ; Observe , and you shall clearly find a Country lass is bes For she is clear , without deceit , and constant will remain ; He that with such a girl does meet his love is not in vain . Printed , for J. Wright , J Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The Politic Countryman . Plainly setting forth the many misfortunes of those men who have missed of their aims in choosing a wife , also discovering the vast difference be - tween the London Mistress's and the Country Dams . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we , Or , Jenny Gin . SInce Women they are grown so bad I'le led a single life , Not one in ten there's to be had will make a careful wife : Therefore I think 'tis best for me single for to remain , For some are bound and would be free , but wishes are in vain . One man he hath a scolding wife , that ne'r will quiet be ; But wearies him out of his life : o ! what ill luck had he To marry one whose wicked tongue does cause him to complain , But knows not how to ease his wrong since mourning is in vain . Another hath a drunken wife that spends all she comes near , And drunkenness oft breeds strife , it plainly does appear : And let him chide her all he can , a Sot she will remain , And he cannot be freed again , all vexing is in vain . Another hath a wanton one , whose lust he can't suffice ; And good men are too oft undone by such , whose ruling eyes On all men gaze ; as if they could by looks their wills obtain , And never will do what they should : good Counsel is in vain . Another hath and idle pack that will not get her Bred , Nor keep good Clothes upon her back , but loves to lie in bed : Good Counsel she does still refuse , reproof she does disdain , Her friends she strangely will abuse that checks her , though in vain . But he that with a Slut does meet hath the worst luck of all , She stinks as she does walk the street , her nasty beast they call : And if you strive to make her neat , then will she scold amain ; That with her you dare hardly eat , to help this 'tis in vain . Then you that have good careful wives esteem them as a prize , Tender them as you do your lives , or Apples of your eyes : For it a certain Treasure proves , and love will there remain , There's nothing that their love removes ; all strivings are in vain . Oh! give to me the Country lass that loves the Milking-paile , For she'l be constant , and alas ! nought can with her prevail : She loves the man that drives the Blow , and sometime sows the grain , He that to her does make a vow his love is not in vain . The lusty lad that stoutly Bows , he loves the Dairy maid ; She's constant , wherefoe're she goes no wantonness is played : All looseness she does clear despise . and looseness does disdain , The Plowman she does Idolise , she loves , but not in vain . Now to conclude , and speak my mind , pray count it not a jest ; Observe , and you shall clearly find a Country lass is bes For she is clear , without deceit , and constant will remain ; He that with such a girl does meet his love is not in vain . Printed , for J. Wright , J Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 