And Excellent new Song , Call'd The Fairy Queen , OR , The merry Companions , Sing , sing while we trip it , trip trip it , trip trip it upon the Green , Let no ill vapours rise or fallen Let no ill Vapours rise or fallen , No nothing , no nothing offend , Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen , Let nothing , let nothing , let nothing , Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen . The Queen is a coming , come coming , Come coming with all her Train , Lets hand and Dance a Round for Joy , Lets hand and dance a Round for Joy While Music , while Music does found While Music does found upon the Plain , While Music does found upon the Plain . Now let us be singing , sing singing , sing singing in praise oath Queen , Her beauty does excel the World , Her beauty does excel the World , No Goddess , no Goddess so fair , No Goddess so fair is to be seen , No Goddess , no Goddess , no Goddess , No Goddess so fair is to be seen . All Joy to the fair one , the fair one , The fair one our Gracious Queen , She is the chief of Loves delight , She is the chief of Loves delight , Let no one , let no one offend , Let no one , offend her on the Green , Let no one , let no one , let no one , Let no one offend her on the Green . Come , let us all follow , fol follow , fol Follow our Queen each way , Let it be to the Woods or Plain , Let it be to the Woods or Plain , We'l trip it , we [ ' ] l trip it along , We'l trip it along till break of day , We'l trip it , we'l trip it , we [ ' ] l trip it , We [ ' ] l trip it along till break of day . Lbdon , Printed and Sold by T. More . And Excellent new Song , Call'd The Fairy Queen , OR , The merry Companions , Sing , sing while we trip it , trip trip it , trip trip it upon the Green , Let no ill vapours rise or fallen Let no ill Vapours rise or fallen , No nothing , no nothing offend , Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen , Let nothing , let nothing , let nothing , Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen . The Queen is a coming , come coming , Come coming with all her Train , Lets hand and Dance a Round for Joy , Lets hand and dance a Round for Joy While Music , while Music does found While Music does found upon the Plain , While Music does found upon the Plain . Now let us be singing , sing singing , sing singing in praise oath Queen , Her beauty does excel the World , Her beauty does excel the World , No Goddess , no Goddess so fair , No Goddess so fair is to be seen , No Goddess , no Goddess , no Goddess , No Goddess so fair is to be seen . All Joy to the fair one , the fair one , The fair one our Gracious Queen , She is the chief of Loves delight , She is the chief of Loves delight , Let no one , let no one offend , Let no one , offend her on the Green , Let no one , let no one , let no one , Let no one offend her on the Green . Come , let us all follow , fol follow , fol Follow our Queen each way , Let it be to the Woods or Plain , Let it be to the Woods or Plain , We'l trip it , we [ ' ] l trip it along , We'l trip it along till break of day , We'l trip it , we'l trip it , we [ ' ] l trip it , We [ ' ] l trip it along till break of day . Lbdon , Printed and Sold by T. More . 