THE VALIANT Soldier's Courtship : Wherein he shows a Soldier ought not to be slighted , not only be - cause they venture their Lives , but likewise that Kings and Princes are , and have been of the same Occupation . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . A Soldier and a bonny Lass , as they walk'd forth one day , With Kisses and with Compliments , he unto her did say , Sweet , let me kiss thy thy ruddy Lips , 'twill make me somewhat bolder : Indeed , kind Sir , my Mother said , I might not kiss a Soldier . My Dear , a Soldier travels far , in bloody Field to fight , And proves himself a Man of War , with shining Armour brigh His Valour daunts the mightiest Foe , making their Courage colder , And Dearest do not answer no , but kiss and honest Soldier . The Cowards lies on Beds of Down the silent Night secure , While we for Honour and Renown , all hardship do endure : The Summer hight , in Camp we lie , and Winter , though much colder ; What man is he that can outvie the valiant Warlike Soldier ? With flying Colours in the Field , we stand by force of Arms ; Nothing so soon can make us yield , as Love's alluring Charms : She make the proudest Monarch bow , if once he does behold her ; Therefore my sweetest Creature now embrace and honest Soldier . The Soldier is a Pillow strong , for to support the Throne , Whose Loyal Duty do's belong to Majesty alone : Fighting up to the Knees in Blood , to be the Realm's upholder ; If this thy Mother understood , she'd let thee love a Soldier . My Dear , I do deserve thy Love , as thou shalt understand , There's not a noble man above a Soldier , in the Land. The Monarch whom we all obey , Religion's true upholder ; He does the Royal Sceptre sway , and is both King and Soldier . My Love , when David lay asleep upon the solid Down , Among his Lambs and harmless Sheep , he dream'd the Royal Crown In splendid Glory he should rear , and be the Land's upholder : Then tell me Love , who can compare with the right valiant Soldier ? He slew Goliah with a Sling , then us'd a Sword also , And did this Giant's Head soon bring , unto the Ground full low : Throwing away his Shepherd's Crook , which he wore on his Shoulder , And took the Sword and Sceptre both , being both King and Soldier . A Soldier's Glory will appear from the Records of Fame , Great Alexander Love , we hear , he conquer'd where he came ; No less than all the Universe , no Champion ever bolder ; Therefore my sweet and bonny Lass , embrace and honest Soldier . You see that Kings and Noble Peers hath Soldiers been of old , And so they are of later years , Courageous , Stout , and Bold : Then wherefore should they be run down , who are the Lands Upholder ? Then prithee Dearest do not frown , but love and honest Soldier . The Damsel made him this Reply , what you have now declar'd , I cannot in the least deny , but yet I am afraid , Your kind Embraces to receive , although the Land's Upholder : But first I'll ask my Mother's leave , and then I'll love a Soldier . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE VALIANT Soldier's Courtship : Wherein he shows a Soldier ought not to be slighted , not only be - cause they venture their Lives , but likewise that Kings and Princes are , and have been of the same Occupation . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . A Soldier and a bonny Lass , as they walk'd forth one day , With Kisses and with Compliments , he unto her did say , Sweet , let me kiss thy thy ruddy Lips , 'twill make me somewhat bolder : Indeed , kind Sir , my Mother said , I might not kiss a Soldier . My Dear , a Soldier travels far , in bloody Field to fight , And proves himself a Man of War , with shining Armour brigh His Valour daunts the mightiest Foe , making their Courage colder , And Dearest do not answer no , but kiss and honest Soldier . The Cowards lies on Beds of Down the silent Night secure , While we for Honour and Renown , all hardship do endure : The Summer hight , in Camp we lie , and Winter , though much colder ; What man is he that can outvie the valiant Warlike Soldier ? With flying Colours in the Field , we stand by force of Arms ; Nothing so soon can make us yield , as Love's alluring Charms : She make the proudest Monarch bow , if once he does behold her ; Therefore my sweetest Creature now embrace and honest Soldier . The Soldier is a Pillow strong , for to support the Throne , Whose Loyal Duty do's belong to Majesty alone : Fighting up to the Knees in Blood , to be the Realm's upholder ; If this thy Mother understood , she'd let thee love a Soldier . My Dear , I do deserve thy Love , as thou shalt understand , There's not a noble man above a Soldier , in the Land. The Monarch whom we all obey , Religion's true upholder ; He does the Royal Sceptre sway , and is both King and Soldier . My Love , when David lay asleep upon the solid Down , Among his Lambs and harmless Sheep , he dream'd the Royal Crown In splendid Glory he should rear , and be the Land's upholder : Then tell me Love , who can compare with the right valiant Soldier ? He slew Goliah with a Sling , then us'd a Sword also , And did this Giant's Head soon bring , unto the Ground full low : Throwing away his Shepherd's Crook , which he wore on his Shoulder , And took the Sword and Sceptre both , being both King and Soldier . A Soldier's Glory will appear from the Records of Fame , Great Alexander Love , we hear , he conquer'd where he came ; No less than all the Universe , no Champion ever bolder ; Therefore my sweet and bonny Lass , embrace and honest Soldier . You see that Kings and Noble Peers hath Soldiers been of old , And so they are of later years , Courageous , Stout , and Bold : Then wherefore should they be run down , who are the Lands Upholder ? Then prithee Dearest do not frown , but love and honest Soldier . The Damsel made him this Reply , what you have now declar'd , I cannot in the least deny , but yet I am afraid , Your kind Embraces to receive , although the Land's Upholder : But first I'll ask my Mother's leave , and then I'll love a Soldier . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 