The Young Damsels Courage and Conques OR , The close Encounter between Country KATE and a lusty Soldier of FLANDERS . Tune of March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Soldier from Flanders he Travell'd of late , and here in the City of London did lie , And happen'd to meet with bonny brisk Kate , a Lass with a delicate ruling Eye : She chucked the Soldier under the Chin , she being youthful brisk and airy , And said if thou wilt my favour win , then come Boy , come Boy , let's be merry : Come Boy , come Boy , beatrice upon my Drum Boy , fain wou'd I see how thou can'st Tabor , Do what you can , honest John , like a Man , and I'll reward you for your labour . ( 2 ) I never could Tabor a Drum , I declare , tho' long I have Marched in Flanders in Spain , A Musket I still on my Shoulders did bear , whenever I follow'd the Warlike-Train : The Damsel immediately thus reply'd , if thou art a Soldier draw out thy Rapier , Thy Courage and Valour with me shall be try'd , Draw then draw I'll make you caper : Draw Boy , draw Boy , 'teent against the Law Boy for if I do but once come near you : This my delight , for to fight , though by night , come on , brave Soldier , I'll not fear you . ( 3 ) He drew out his Rapier and to her did run ; as soon as she saw it young Kate god a fallen , But yet there alas was no prejudice done , she still for a closer encounter did call : Just when he thought he had got the day , her courage & strength did still grow stronger , So that she still show'd him delicate play , till he , till he could strive no longer : Longer , longer , not a Minute longer , thus was he conquer'd by a Beauty , She god the day , as they say , in the fray , and vow'd that she'd make him know his Duty . ( 4 ) She turn'd to the Soldier and gave him a smile , and said was you e're so beaten before , I am not like those that will parley a while , but conquer without any Cannons that roar : At this the Soldier was straight in a rage , resolving his Forces again to rally , That he with young beautiful Kate might engage , in vain , in vain , it was to dally , Dally , dally , never would he dally , nor would he yield on no condition ; She held him too't , he did shoot , the dispute held while he'd spent his Ammunition . ( 5 ) Now his Bandeliers being empty at last , so that he no longer could stand the Field , He would have been running but she held him fast so that he was forc'd to submit and yield : Though often he fought in the Field of Mars , where Cannons had roared like claps of thunder , At length by a Beautiful Country Lass , he was subdu'd and soon brought under : Under , under , yet it was no wonder , being no more than what is common : Those that have fought , many Enemies stout , at length have been conquer'd by a Woman . FINIS . Prinpet for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J Back . The Young Damsels Courage and Conques OR , The close Encounter between Country KATE and a lusty Soldier of FLANDERS . Tune of March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Soldier from Flanders he Travell'd of late , and here in the City of London did lie , And happen'd to meet with bonny brisk Kate , a Lass with a delicate ruling Eye : She chucked the Soldier under the Chin , she being youthful brisk and airy , And said if thou wilt my favour win , then come Boy , come Boy , let's be merry : Come Boy , come Boy , beatrice upon my Drum Boy , fain wou'd I see how thou can'st Tabor , Do what you can , honest John , like a Man , and I'll reward you for your labour . ( 2 ) I never could Tabor a Drum , I declare , tho' long I have Marched in Flanders in Spain , A Musket I still on my Shoulders did bear , whenever I follow'd the Warlike-Train : The Damsel immediately thus reply'd , if thou art a Soldier draw out thy Rapier , Thy Courage and Valour with me shall be try'd , Draw then draw I'll make you caper : Draw Boy , draw Boy , 'teent against the Law Boy for if I do but once come near you : This my delight , for to fight , though by night , come on , brave Soldier , I'll not fear you . ( 3 ) He drew out his Rapier and to her did run ; as soon as she saw it young Kate god a fallen , But yet there alas was no prejudice done , she still for a closer encounter did call : Just when he thought he had got the day , her courage & strength did still grow stronger , So that she still show'd him delicate play , till he , till he could strive no longer : Longer , longer , not a Minute longer , thus was he conquer'd by a Beauty , She god the day , as they say , in the fray , and vow'd that she'd make him know his Duty . ( 4 ) She turn'd to the Soldier and gave him a smile , and said was you e're so beaten before , I am not like those that will parley a while , but conquer without any Cannons that roar : At this the Soldier was straight in a rage , resolving his Forces again to rally , That he with young beautiful Kate might engage , in vain , in vain , it was to dally , Dally , dally , never would he dally , nor would he yield on no condition ; She held him too't , he did shoot , the dispute held while he'd spent his Ammunition . ( 5 ) Now his Bandeliers being empty at last , so that he no longer could stand the Field , He would have been running but she held him fast so that he was forc'd to submit and yield : Though often he fought in the Field of Mars , where Cannons had roared like claps of thunder , At length by a Beautiful Country Lass , he was subdu'd and soon brought under : Under , under , yet it was no wonder , being no more than what is common : Those that have fought , many Enemies stout , at length have been conquer'd by a Woman . FINIS . Prinpet for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J Back . 