The Public Faith . SOme tell of Affrick Monsters , which of old Vain superstition did for Godheads hold . How the Egyptians , who first knowledge sp [ r ] ed Ador'd their Apis with the white Bulls head : Apis still fed with Serpents that do hiss , Hamon , Osyris , Monster Anubis . But sunburnt Affrick never had nor hath A Monster like our English public Faith . Those fed on snakes and satisfied did rest , This like the Curtain gulf will have the best Thing in the City , to appease its still Increasing hunger , glutting its lewd will With families , whose substance it devours , Perverting Justice and the higher powers Contemning , without fear of any law , Preying on all to fill its ravenous maw ; Whose Estridge stomach which no steel can sat Has swallowed down Indies of gold and plate : This is the public Faith which being fed Byth' City's wealth , has in this Kingdom bred Such various mischiefs with its viperous breath , Blastings its peace and happiness to death : And yet this Idol which our world adores Has made men prostitute their truth like whores To its foul lust , which surely may as well And soon be satisfied as the grave or hell : This preys on Horses , yet that will not do , Unless it may devour the Riders too : This takes up all the riches of the land , Not by entreaty , but unjust command ; Borrowing extortively , without any day But the Greek Calends , then it means to pay . This 'gainst the law of Nations does surprise The goods of strangers , Kings , and in its wise Discretion , ( thinks though its not worth their note ) They'r bound to take the public Faiths trim vote For their security , when this public Faith Has broke more Merchant's then ere riot hath : And yet , good men oth' City , you are proud To have this bankrupt public Faith aloud More credit then your King : to this yowl lend More willingly then ever you did spend Money to buy your wives and children bred ; By such a strange enchantment being misled To your undoings , you ( who upon bound ) Nay searsly upon mortgage of that land Triple your money's valve , would not part With your lov'd coin vanquished by th' powerful art . Of this Magician public Faith justly install Him master of your bags , the Devil and all That taught you get them by deceitful wares , And sucking in ( like morning's draughts ) young heirs : Well certainly if this fine humour hold Your Aldermen will have no other gold But whats in thumb rings for their ponderous chains , They'l be the public Faiths just lawful gains ; And have the honour afterwards to be Hang'd in them for its public treachery . What will become of you then , grave and witty Inhabitants of this enchanted City ; Who is't shall those vast sums to you repay When master public Faith is run away ? Or who shall those prodigious heaps renew Which were so prodigally decreas'd by you ? Whom the whole world imagin'd men of thrift , What will your Orphans do , how will they shift ? Whose whole estates ith' City chamber hath Been given a spoil to ruin'd public Faith : Perhaps you'l pawn your Charter to supply The worthy wants of your necessity : Who is't will tak't when all ( but men misled Like you ) know 'tis already forfeited ? Who is't will then into new coin translate Such monstrous cupboards of huge antic plate To public Faiths vast treasury , bringing in From the guilt goblet , to the silver pin , All that was coinable and what to do Even to create you knaves and traitors too . Faith if you chance to come off with your lives , Your way will be to live upon you wives : Their trading will be good when fortune wears Your colours in the caps oth' Cavaliers ; Whose Cuckcolds you'l be then , and on your brow We are their horns , as you public Faiths do now : Then then you'l howl when you shall clearly see That public Faith was public treachery : Then you'l confess your selves to've been undone By public Faithsman Isaack Pennington : Then you'l repent that ever you did fling Such monstrous sums away against your King . When he in triumph with his warlike train Shall to your terror view your Town again . Unless his mercy mitigate his wrath Justly conceiv'd 'gainst you and public Faith . That reverend Alderman which did defile His breeches at the mustering , ere while Shall then again those velvet slops bewray Cause public Faith did make him go astray Pants shall be open'd then , and you conspire No more against the Organs in the choir : Nor threat the Saints ith' windows , nor repair In troops to kill the book of Common Prayer : Nor drunk with zeal endeavour to engross 'To your own use the stones of Cheapside Cross : Then then you'l bow your heads your horns and all That so exalted were to save from thrall Your ruin'd liberties ; and humbly pray For mercy more then upon each Fast day . ( When your seditious Preachers to the throng Make prayers extempore of five hours long . ) Lest you by early penitence prevent Your certain danger , if not punishment ; Which you by no means may so safely do As quitting public Faith and treason too . Then then though late you to your grief will find That you have walk'd ( as moles ith' earth do ) blind Of your fair reason , and obedience light , Involv'd in mists of black rebellious night . If these instructions will not make you see Your error , may you perish in't for me ; And to your ruin walk in death full path That leads toth' gallows with the public Faith . FINIS . The Public Faith . SOme tell of Affrick Monsters , which of old Vain superstition did for Godheads hold . How the Egyptians , who first knowledge sp [ r ] ed Ador'd their Apis with the white Bulls head : Apis still fed with Serpents that do hiss , Hamon , Osyris , Monster Anubis . But sunburnt Affrick never had nor hath A Monster like our English public Faith . Those fed on snakes and satisfied did rest , This like the Curtain gulf will have the best Thing in the City , to appease its still Increasing hunger , glutting its lewd will With families , whose substance it devours , Perverting Justice and the higher powers Contemning , without fear of any law , Preying on all to fill its ravenous maw ; Whose Estridge stomach which no steel can sat Has swallowed down Indies of gold and plate : This is the public Faith which being fed Byth' City's wealth , has in this Kingdom bred Such various mischiefs with its viperous breath , Blastings its peace and happiness to death : And yet this Idol which our world adores Has made men prostitute their truth like whores To its foul lust , which surely may as well And soon be satisfied as the grave or hell : This preys on Horses , yet that will not do , Unless it may devour the Riders too : This takes up all the riches of the land , Not by entreaty , but unjust command ; Borrowing extortively , without any day But the Greek Calends , then it means to pay . This 'gainst the law of Nations does surprise The goods of strangers , Kings , and in its wise Discretion , ( thinks though its not worth their note ) They'r bound to take the public Faiths trim vote For their security , when this public Faith Has broke more Merchant's then ere riot hath : And yet , good men oth' City , you are proud To have this bankrupt public Faith aloud More credit then your King : to this yowl lend More willingly then ever you did spend Money to buy your wives and children bred ; By such a strange enchantment being misled To your undoings , you ( who upon bound ) Nay searsly upon mortgage of that land Triple your money's valve , would not part With your lov'd coin vanquished by th' powerful art . Of this Magician public Faith justly install Him master of your bags , the Devil and all That taught you get them by deceitful wares , And sucking in ( like morning's draughts ) young heirs : Well certainly if this fine humour hold Your Aldermen will have no other gold But whats in thumb rings for their ponderous chains , They'l be the public Faiths just lawful gains ; And have the honour afterwards to be Hang'd in them for its public treachery . What will become of you then , grave and witty Inhabitants of this enchanted City ; Who is't shall those vast sums to you repay When master public Faith is run away ? Or who shall those prodigious heaps renew Which were so prodigally decreas'd by you ? Whom the whole world imagin'd men of thrift , What will your Orphans do , how will they shift ? Whose whole estates ith' City chamber hath Been given a spoil to ruin'd public Faith : Perhaps you'l pawn your Charter to supply The worthy wants of your necessity : Who is't will tak't when all ( but men misled Like you ) know 'tis already forfeited ? Who is't will then into new coin translate Such monstrous cupboards of huge antic plate To public Faiths vast treasury , bringing in From the guilt goblet , to the silver pin , All that was coinable and what to do Even to create you knaves and traitors too . Faith if you chance to come off with your lives , Your way will be to live upon you wives : Their trading will be good when fortune wears Your colours in the caps oth' Cavaliers ; Whose Cuckcolds you'l be then , and on your brow We are their horns , as you public Faiths do now : Then then you'l howl when you shall clearly see That public Faith was public treachery : Then you'l confess your selves to've been undone By public Faithsman Isaack Pennington : Then you'l repent that ever you did fling Such monstrous sums away against your King . When he in triumph with his warlike train Shall to your terror view your Town again . Unless his mercy mitigate his wrath Justly conceiv'd 'gainst you and public Faith . That reverend Alderman which did defile His breeches at the mustering , ere while Shall then again those velvet slops bewray Cause public Faith did make him go astray Pants shall be open'd then , and you conspire No more against the Organs in the choir : Nor threat the Saints ith' windows , nor repair In troops to kill the book of Common Prayer : Nor drunk with zeal endeavour to engross 'To your own use the stones of Cheapside Cross : Then then you'l bow your heads your horns and all That so exalted were to save from thrall Your ruin'd liberties ; and humbly pray For mercy more then upon each Fast day . ( When your seditious Preachers to the throng Make prayers extempore of five hours long . ) Lest you by early penitence prevent Your certain danger , if not punishment ; Which you by no means may so safely do As quitting public Faith and treason too . Then then though late you to your grief will find That you have walk'd ( as moles ith' earth do ) blind Of your fair reason , and obedience light , Involv'd in mists of black rebellious night . If these instructions will not make you see Your error , may you perish in't for me ; And to your ruin walk in death full path That leads toth' gallows with the public Faith . FINIS . 