On the Word ABDICATE . ( 1 ) SOme Thieves , by ill hap , with and Honest Man met , And with Armed Ruffians him round did beset ; They made scurvy signs , he should yield up his Purse , Or if he durst keep it , he should fare the worse . He saw them so strong , And fearing great Wrong , And flying for safety , his Purse down he flung : So 'tis Lawfully theirs , by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his Purse Abdicate . ( 2 ) A Virgin did fallen in a Ravishers hands , And no way cou'd escape their Lawless Demands ; They ty'd fast her Arms , and left her no Power , Their Will to resist , or her Honour t' secure . So the Maid they Abus'd , And at pleasure Misus'd , Yet the Ravisher's Honest , she Justly Accus'd ; And made a mere Whore by a Vote of our State , 'Cause she freely her Maidenhead did Abdicate . ( 3 ) Some Robbers broke into a Gentleman's House , They seiz'd his Arms , Pinion'd him , then let him lose : His Servants to th' Villains their help too did lend , So he fled , 'cause he cou'd it no longer defend . They Swore they'd still have it , Since they did not bereave it , But of his own free accord the Owner did leave i So 'tis Lawfully theirs by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his House Abdicate . ( 4 ) A Father did quietly enjoy his Estate , His Ambitious Son thought his turn wou'd come late ; So his Armed Comrades , with some Tenant did join , To force him away , or to make him Resign : Their pretence they did tell , That he Manag'd not well , And therefore it Lawfully to their shares fell : So they've Just Title to't , by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his Right Abdicate . ( 5 ) And Ambitious Prince did strangely intend , To Dethrone his own Uncle , his Wife , Father & Friend : With some Treacherous Subject's the Plot was so lay'd , That they should Desert , while he did Invade : Power left he had none , To maintain his Own , So when he was bid , it was time to be gone : So he quite lost his Right by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his Crown Abdicate . ( 6 ) Now unless the Word Abdicate bears this strange sense , New King and New Parliament are vanish'd hence ; Coronation's a Foppery , our New Laws are gone , New Allegiance is Treason , New Officers none : Our Taxes are Robb'ry , We English Men Slaves , And all those odd Voters are so many Knaves : For all the whole Frame of our New-fashion'd State , Is built on the Nonsense of their Abdicate : For if James did not freely quit , then no new King And all that thence follows , hangs on the same String . FINIS . On the Word ABDICATE . ( 1 ) SOme Thieves , by ill hap , with and Honest Man met , And with Armed Ruffians him round did beset ; They made scurvy signs , he should yield up his Purse , Or if he durst keep it , he should fare the worse . He saw them so strong , And fearing great Wrong , And flying for safety , his Purse down he flung : So 'tis Lawfully theirs , by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his Purse Abdicate . ( 2 ) A Virgin did fallen in a Ravishers hands , And no way cou'd escape their Lawless Demands ; They ty'd fast her Arms , and left her no Power , Their Will to resist , or her Honour t' secure . So the Maid they Abus'd , And at pleasure Misus'd , Yet the Ravisher's Honest , she Justly Accus'd ; And made a mere Whore by a Vote of our State , 'Cause she freely her Maidenhead did Abdicate . ( 3 ) Some Robbers broke into a Gentleman's House , They seiz'd his Arms , Pinion'd him , then let him lose : His Servants to th' Villains their help too did lend , So he fled , 'cause he cou'd it no longer defend . They Swore they'd still have it , Since they did not bereave it , But of his own free accord the Owner did leave i So 'tis Lawfully theirs by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his House Abdicate . ( 4 ) A Father did quietly enjoy his Estate , His Ambitious Son thought his turn wou'd come late ; So his Armed Comrades , with some Tenant did join , To force him away , or to make him Resign : Their pretence they did tell , That he Manag'd not well , And therefore it Lawfully to their shares fell : So they've Just Title to't , by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his Right Abdicate . ( 5 ) And Ambitious Prince did strangely intend , To Dethrone his own Uncle , his Wife , Father & Friend : With some Treacherous Subject's the Plot was so lay'd , That they should Desert , while he did Invade : Power left he had none , To maintain his Own , So when he was bid , it was time to be gone : So he quite lost his Right by a Vote of our State , Because he did freely his Crown Abdicate . ( 6 ) Now unless the Word Abdicate bears this strange sense , New King and New Parliament are vanish'd hence ; Coronation's a Foppery , our New Laws are gone , New Allegiance is Treason , New Officers none : Our Taxes are Robb'ry , We English Men Slaves , And all those odd Voters are so many Knaves : For all the whole Frame of our New-fashion'd State , Is built on the Nonsense of their Abdicate : For if James did not freely quit , then no new King And all that thence follows , hangs on the same String . FINIS . 