The Dead Man's SONG , WHOSE Dwelling was near BASING-HALL , in the City of LONDON . To and Excellent Tune , call'd , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . Soar sick dear friends long time I was , and weakly laid in bed , And for five hours in all men's sighed at length I lay as dead : The bell rung out , my friends came in and I key cold was found , Then was my carcase brought from bed , and laid upon the ground . My loving wife did weep full soar , my children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet this they said , All flesh is born to die . My winding-sheet prepared was , my grave was also made , And for five hours in all men's sighed , in this same case I laid . In which time my soul did see , such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all delights : Yet sith the Lord restor'd my life , which from my body fled , I will declare the sights I saw , the time that I was dead . Methought upon a lovely green , where pleasant flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sung ; The grass was sweet , the trees was fair , and lovely to behold , And full of fruit was every twig , which shin'd like glistering gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the fruit so fair , But as I reached , a fair young man , to me did nigh repair : 'Touch not , said he , 'tis none of thine , 'but weened and walk with me , 'And see thou mark each several thing , 'which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away , Till on a gallant goodly bank , with him he bid me stay : With branches then of lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he , When this was done , he had me look , what I far off could see . I looked up , and lo at last , I did a city see , So fair a thing did never man behold with mortal eye : Of diamonds , pearls , and precious stone , it seems the walls were made , The houses all with beaten gold , where til'd and overlaid . Far brighter then the morning sun , the light thereof did show , And every creature in the same , like crowned kings did go . The fields about the city fair , were all with roses set , Gilliflowers and coronations fair , whom canker could not fret . And from the fields there did proceed a sweet and pleasant smell , That ever l [ i ] ving creature felt , the scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the city found , That I therewith was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth , and melody , princes did there embrace , But in my heart I long'd to be within that blessed place ; The more I gaz'd the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well , For what I saw in every thing my tongue no way can tell . Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many kings did dwell , in joy and melody : Quoth he , That blessed place is Heaven , where yet thou canst not rest , And those that do like princes go , are these whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He had me view and mark as much , what things were to be spy'd : With that I saw a coalblack den all tan'd with soot and smoke , Where stinking brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke . And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives was slashed , And in a cauldron of poison filth his ugly corpse were washed ; About his neck were sundry ruffs that flam'd on every side ; I asked , and so the young man said , that he was damn'd for pride . Another sort there did I see , whose bowels vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar . A spotted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts , And this was Conscience , I was told , which plagu'd their inward parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face : And ladles full of melted gold , were poured down their throats ; And these were set , it seem'd to me , in midst of burning boats : The foremost of the company was Judas I was told , Who had for filthy lucre's sake his Lord and Master sold ; For covetousness he was condem'd , so it was told to me . And there methought another rout of hellhounds I did see . Their faces seemed fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore , And dishes full of crawling toads , were made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs , and feet , with redhot pincers then , The flesh was plucked even from the bone , of these vile gluttonous men . On coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their heads were laid , And fiends with glowing whips of fire , their lecherous flesh off flayed . Then did I see another come , stabb'd in with daggers thick , And filthy fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound and prick ; And mighty holes of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink ; And these men were for murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the swearer and the liar . And they were hung up by the tongue , over a flaming fire . From eyes , from ears , from navel and nose , and from the lower parts , The blood methought did gushing run , and clogged like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment was now on swearers laid . 'Because , quoth he , wounds , heart and blood 'were all the oaths they made . And therewithal from ugly hell , such grievous cries I herd , As though some greater grief and care had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me fell , Away then went this young man quite , and bade me not farewell : Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit return'd again , And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see myself , so laid upon the ground : Which when my neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the news from Heaven and Hell . London : Printed by and for W. Onley , at the Angel in Little Britain ; and A. Milb [ oh ] ur [ n ] The Dead Man's SONG , WHOSE Dwelling was near BASING-HALL , in the City of LONDON . To and Excellent Tune , call'd , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . Soar sick dear friends long time I was , and weakly laid in bed , And for five hours in all men's sighed at length I lay as dead : The bell rung out , my friends came in and I key cold was found , Then was my carcase brought from bed , and laid upon the ground . My loving wife did weep full soar , my children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet this they said , All flesh is born to die . My winding-sheet prepared was , my grave was also made , And for five hours in all men's sighed , in this same case I laid . In which time my soul did see , such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all delights : Yet sith the Lord restor'd my life , which from my body fled , I will declare the sights I saw , the time that I was dead . Methought upon a lovely green , where pleasant flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sung ; The grass was sweet , the trees was fair , and lovely to behold , And full of fruit was every twig , which shin'd like glistering gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the fruit so fair , But as I reached , a fair young man , to me did nigh repair : 'Touch not , said he , 'tis none of thine , 'but weened and walk with me , 'And see thou mark each several thing , 'which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away , Till on a gallant goodly bank , with him he bid me stay : With branches then of lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he , When this was done , he had me look , what I far off could see . I looked up , and lo at last , I did a city see , So fair a thing did never man behold with mortal eye : Of diamonds , pearls , and precious stone , it seems the walls were made , The houses all with beaten gold , where til'd and overlaid . Far brighter then the morning sun , the light thereof did show , And every creature in the same , like crowned kings did go . The fields about the city fair , were all with roses set , Gilliflowers and coronations fair , whom canker could not fret . And from the fields there did proceed a sweet and pleasant smell , That ever l [ i ] ving creature felt , the scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the city found , That I therewith was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth , and melody , princes did there embrace , But in my heart I long'd to be within that blessed place ; The more I gaz'd the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well , For what I saw in every thing my tongue no way can tell . Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many kings did dwell , in joy and melody : Quoth he , That blessed place is Heaven , where yet thou canst not rest , And those that do like princes go , are these whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He had me view and mark as much , what things were to be spy'd : With that I saw a coalblack den all tan'd with soot and smoke , Where stinking brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke . And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives was slashed , And in a cauldron of poison filth his ugly corpse were washed ; About his neck were sundry ruffs that flam'd on every side ; I asked , and so the young man said , that he was damn'd for pride . Another sort there did I see , whose bowels vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar . A spotted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts , And this was Conscience , I was told , which plagu'd their inward parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face : And ladles full of melted gold , were poured down their throats ; And these were set , it seem'd to me , in midst of burning boats : The foremost of the company was Judas I was told , Who had for filthy lucre's sake his Lord and Master sold ; For covetousness he was condem'd , so it was told to me . And there methought another rout of hellhounds I did see . Their faces seemed fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore , And dishes full of crawling toads , were made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs , and feet , with redhot pincers then , The flesh was plucked even from the bone , of these vile gluttonous men . On coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their heads were laid , And fiends with glowing whips of fire , their lecherous flesh off flayed . Then did I see another come , stabb'd in with daggers thick , And filthy fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound and prick ; And mighty holes of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink ; And these men were for murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the swearer and the liar . And they were hung up by the tongue , over a flaming fire . From eyes , from ears , from navel and nose , and from the lower parts , The blood methought did gushing run , and clogged like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment was now on swearers laid . 'Because , quoth he , wounds , heart and blood 'were all the oaths they made . And therewithal from ugly hell , such grievous cries I herd , As though some greater grief and care had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me fell , Away then went this young man quite , and bade me not farewell : Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit return'd again , And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see myself , so laid upon the ground : Which when my neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the news from Heaven and Hell . London : Printed by and for W. Onley , at the Angel in Little Britain ; and A. Milb [ oh ] ur [ n ] 