Unconstant Damon : OR , Clorinda's Languishing Lamentation : To a delightful new Tune , or , He that loves best must suffer most . Licensed according to Order . I . SOme mournful Muse attend my Quill , While I the Shades and Valleys fill , With Sighs and sad lamenting Cries , Since Damon does my Love despise : Here for his sake I bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . II Among the Mountains did I rove , And likewise e'ery silent Grove , To find out my Disloyal Swain ; But yet I find it all in vain . Now for his sake I bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . III . When first the Shades I did frequent , I little knew what Lovers meant ; My freedom then I did enjoy , But Damon did the same destroy : Now for his sake I bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . 4. Why does the God of Love invade The Heart of a young harmless Maid ? And leave me likewise bound , says she , In Chains of sad Captivity ? Where I in Sorrow sighing lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 5. No longer can I now Conceal My flames , but must the same reveal ; For Cupid with his Golden Dart , Has wounded deep my yielding Heart , So that in melting Tears I lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 6. The Rose and Lillys which did twine , Here in these youthful Cheeks of mine , Are now become as pale as Led , Since all my splendid Glory's fled : For Damon's sake , I Bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 7. The fatal stroke make haste to give , For I had rather die than live In so much Torment , Grief and Pain ; Farewell thon false and perjur'd Swain : In Grief alas ! I bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 8. Here I invoke the Powers above , To pity me whose Pain is Love , And yield me now this day Relief , To ease the anguish of my Grief : For here alas ! I bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 9. What have I done to cause this Woe ? Why does the Fates afflict me so ? Why don't my Heart this minute break ? And Death a Final Conquest make : For here alas ! I Bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . 10. The Nymph that now enjoys my Dear . While I in sorrow Languish here , She little knows my Wretched State , The which no Mortal can relate : For here alas ! I bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Unconstant Damon : OR , Clorinda's Languishing Lamentation : To a delightful new Tune , or , He that loves best must suffer most . Licensed according to Order . I . SOme mournful Muse attend my Quill , While I the Shades and Valleys fill , With Sighs and sad lamenting Cries , Since Damon does my Love despise : Here for his sake I bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . II Among the Mountains did I rove , And likewise e'ery silent Grove , To find out my Disloyal Swain ; But yet I find it all in vain . Now for his sake I bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . III . When first the Shades I did frequent , I little knew what Lovers meant ; My freedom then I did enjoy , But Damon did the same destroy : Now for his sake I bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . 4. Why does the God of Love invade The Heart of a young harmless Maid ? And leave me likewise bound , says she , In Chains of sad Captivity ? Where I in Sorrow sighing lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 5. No longer can I now Conceal My flames , but must the same reveal ; For Cupid with his Golden Dart , Has wounded deep my yielding Heart , So that in melting Tears I lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 6. The Rose and Lillys which did twine , Here in these youthful Cheeks of mine , Are now become as pale as Led , Since all my splendid Glory's fled : For Damon's sake , I Bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 7. The fatal stroke make haste to give , For I had rather die than live In so much Torment , Grief and Pain ; Farewell thon false and perjur'd Swain : In Grief alas ! I bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 8. Here I invoke the Powers above , To pity me whose Pain is Love , And yield me now this day Relief , To ease the anguish of my Grief : For here alas ! I bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . 9. What have I done to cause this Woe ? Why does the Fates afflict me so ? Why don't my Heart this minute break ? And Death a Final Conquest make : For here alas ! I Bleeding lie , And fain I would but cannot die . 10. The Nymph that now enjoys my Dear . While I in sorrow Languish here , She little knows my Wretched State , The which no Mortal can relate : For here alas ! I bleeding lie , And fain I would , but cannot die . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 