The DEAD MAN's SONG . Whose Dwelling was near BASING-HALL , in the City of LONDON . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . Soar sick , dear Friends , long time I was , and weakly laid in Bed , And for five hours in all Men's sighed , at length I lay as dead : The Bell rung out , my Friends came in , and I Key-cold was found , Then was my Cacass brought from Bed , and laid upon the Ground . My loving Wife did weep full soar , my Children loud did cry , My Friends did mourn , yet this they said , All Flesh is born to die . My Winding-Sheet prepared was , my Grave was also made , And for five hours in all Men's sighed , in this samt Case I laid . In which time my Soul did see such strange and fearful Sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all Delights : Yet since the Lord restor'd my Life , which from my Body fled , I will declare the Sights I saw the Time that I was dead . Methought upon a lovely Green , where pleasant Flowers sprung , I took my Way , whereas I thought the Muses sweetly sung : The Grass was sweet , the Trees were fair , and lovely to behold , And full of Fruit was every Twig , which shin'd like glistering Gold . My cheerful Heart desired much to taste the Fruit so fair ; But as I reach'd , a tall young Man to me did nigh repair : Touch not ( said he ) 'tis none of thine , but wonder and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing which I shall show to thee . I wonder'd greatly at his Words , yet went with him away , 'Till on a gallant goodly Bank with him he bid me stay : With Branches then of Lilies white , mine Eyes there wiped he ; When this was done , he bid me look what I far off could see . I looked up , and lo ! at last I did a City see ; So fair a Thing did never Man behold with mortal Eye . Of Diamonds , Pearls . and precious Stones , It seems the Walls were made ; The Houses all with beaten Gold were til'd and overlaid . Far brighter than the Morning Sun the Light thereof did show , And every Creature in the same like crowned Kings did go . The Fields about the City fair , were all with Roses set , Gilliflowers and Carnations fair , whom Canker could not fret . And from the Fields there did proceed a sweet and pleasant Smell , That ever living Creature felt , the Scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant Mirth did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my Joy did so abound . With Music , Mirth and Melody , Princes did there embrace : But in my Heart I long'd to be within that Blessed Place . The more I gaz'd the more I might , the Sighed pleas'd me so well ; For what I saw in everything , my Tongue no way can tell . Then of the Man I did demand what Place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell in Joy and Melody ? Quoth he , That blessed Place is HEAVEN , where yet thou can'st not rest , And those that do like Princes go , are those whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bid me view and mark as much , what Things were to be spy'd : With that I saw a Coalblack Den , all tann'd with Soot and Smoke , Where stinking Brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke . And ugly Creature there I saw , whose Face with Knives was slash'd , And in a cauldron of poison Filth his ugly Corpse was wash'd : About his Neck were sundry Ruffs that flam'd on every side : I ask'd , and then the Youngman said that he was damn'd for Pride . Another Sort there did I see , whose Bowels Vipers tore ; And grievously with gaping Mouths they did both Yell and Roar . A spotted Person by each one , stood gnawing on their Hearts , And this was Conscience , I was told , which plagu'd the [ i ] r inward Parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but strait came in their Place A Sort still throwing burning Fire , which fell against their Face : And Ladles full of melted Gold were poured down their Throats ; And these were set , it seem'd to me , ith' midst of burning Boats . The foremost of the Company was JUDAS I was told , Who had for filthy Lucre sake his Lord and Master sold : For Covetousness he was condemn'd , so it was told to me ; And there methought another Rout of Hellhounds I did see . Their Faces seemed fat in Sighed , yet all their Bones were bore , And Dishes full of crawling Toads were made their finest Fare : From Arms , from Hands , from Thighs and feet with redhot Pinchers then The Flesh was pluck'd even from the Bone of these vile gluttonous Men . On coalblack Beds another sort in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning Brands , their Flesh to scorch and fry : With Brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their Heads were laid , And Fiends with glowing Whips of fire their lecherous Flesh off flay'd . Then did I see another come , stabb'd in with Daggers thick , And filthy Fiends with fiery Darts their Hearts did wound and prick . And mighty Bowls of corrupt Blood was brought for them to drink ; And these Men were for Murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw , when they were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And they were hung up by the Tongues over a flaming Fire . From Eyes , from Ears , from navel and nose , and from the Lower Parts , The Blood methought did gushing run , and clogged like Men's Hearts . I asked why that Punishment was now on Swearers laid ? Because ( quoth he ) wounds heart and blood , were all the Oaths they made . And therewithal from ugly Hell , such grievous Cries I herd , As though some greater Grief and Care had vex'd them afterwards . So that my Soul was soar afraid , such Terror on me fell : Away then went this Youngman quite , and bid me not farewell : Wherefore unto my Body strait my Spirit return'd again , And lively Blood did afterwards stretch forth in every Vein . My closed Eyes I opened , and raised from my Swoon . I wonder'd much to see myself so laid upon the Ground : Which when my Neighbours did behold , great Fear upon them fell : To whom soon after I did tell the News from Heaven and Hell . Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The DEAD MAN's SONG . Whose Dwelling was near BASING-HALL , in the City of LONDON . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . Soar sick , dear Friends , long time I was , and weakly laid in Bed , And for five hours in all Men's sighed , at length I lay as dead : The Bell rung out , my Friends came in , and I Key-cold was found , Then was my Cacass brought from Bed , and laid upon the Ground . My loving Wife did weep full soar , my Children loud did cry , My Friends did mourn , yet this they said , All Flesh is born to die . My Winding-Sheet prepared was , my Grave was also made , And for five hours in all Men's sighed , in this samt Case I laid . In which time my Soul did see such strange and fearful Sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all Delights : Yet since the Lord restor'd my Life , which from my Body fled , I will declare the Sights I saw the Time that I was dead . Methought upon a lovely Green , where pleasant Flowers sprung , I took my Way , whereas I thought the Muses sweetly sung : The Grass was sweet , the Trees were fair , and lovely to behold , And full of Fruit was every Twig , which shin'd like glistering Gold . My cheerful Heart desired much to taste the Fruit so fair ; But as I reach'd , a tall young Man to me did nigh repair : Touch not ( said he ) 'tis none of thine , but wonder and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing which I shall show to thee . I wonder'd greatly at his Words , yet went with him away , 'Till on a gallant goodly Bank with him he bid me stay : With Branches then of Lilies white , mine Eyes there wiped he ; When this was done , he bid me look what I far off could see . I looked up , and lo ! at last I did a City see ; So fair a Thing did never Man behold with mortal Eye . Of Diamonds , Pearls . and precious Stones , It seems the Walls were made ; The Houses all with beaten Gold were til'd and overlaid . Far brighter than the Morning Sun the Light thereof did show , And every Creature in the same like crowned Kings did go . The Fields about the City fair , were all with Roses set , Gilliflowers and Carnations fair , whom Canker could not fret . And from the Fields there did proceed a sweet and pleasant Smell , That ever living Creature felt , the Scent did so excel : Beside such sweet and pleasant Mirth did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my Joy did so abound . With Music , Mirth and Melody , Princes did there embrace : But in my Heart I long'd to be within that Blessed Place . The more I gaz'd the more I might , the Sighed pleas'd me so well ; For what I saw in everything , my Tongue no way can tell . Then of the Man I did demand what Place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell in Joy and Melody ? Quoth he , That blessed Place is HEAVEN , where yet thou can'st not rest , And those that do like Princes go , are those whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bid me view and mark as much , what Things were to be spy'd : With that I saw a Coalblack Den , all tann'd with Soot and Smoke , Where stinking Brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke . And ugly Creature there I saw , whose Face with Knives was slash'd , And in a cauldron of poison Filth his ugly Corpse was wash'd : About his Neck were sundry Ruffs that flam'd on every side : I ask'd , and then the Youngman said that he was damn'd for Pride . Another Sort there did I see , whose Bowels Vipers tore ; And grievously with gaping Mouths they did both Yell and Roar . A spotted Person by each one , stood gnawing on their Hearts , And this was Conscience , I was told , which plagu'd the [ i ] r inward Parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but strait came in their Place A Sort still throwing burning Fire , which fell against their Face : And Ladles full of melted Gold were poured down their Throats ; And these were set , it seem'd to me , ith' midst of burning Boats . The foremost of the Company was JUDAS I was told , Who had for filthy Lucre sake his Lord and Master sold : For Covetousness he was condemn'd , so it was told to me ; And there methought another Rout of Hellhounds I did see . Their Faces seemed fat in Sighed , yet all their Bones were bore , And Dishes full of crawling Toads were made their finest Fare : From Arms , from Hands , from Thighs and feet with redhot Pinchers then The Flesh was pluck'd even from the Bone of these vile gluttonous Men . On coalblack Beds another sort in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning Brands , their Flesh to scorch and fry : With Brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their Heads were laid , And Fiends with glowing Whips of fire their lecherous Flesh off flay'd . Then did I see another come , stabb'd in with Daggers thick , And filthy Fiends with fiery Darts their Hearts did wound and prick . And mighty Bowls of corrupt Blood was brought for them to drink ; And these Men were for Murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw , when they were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And they were hung up by the Tongues over a flaming Fire . From Eyes , from Ears , from navel and nose , and from the Lower Parts , The Blood methought did gushing run , and clogged like Men's Hearts . I asked why that Punishment was now on Swearers laid ? Because ( quoth he ) wounds heart and blood , were all the Oaths they made . And therewithal from ugly Hell , such grievous Cries I herd , As though some greater Grief and Care had vex'd them afterwards . So that my Soul was soar afraid , such Terror on me fell : Away then went this Youngman quite , and bid me not farewell : Wherefore unto my Body strait my Spirit return'd again , And lively Blood did afterwards stretch forth in every Vein . My closed Eyes I opened , and raised from my Swoon . I wonder'd much to see myself so laid upon the Ground : Which when my Neighbours did behold , great Fear upon them fell : To whom soon after I did tell the News from Heaven and Hell . Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 