A Canto on the new Miracle wrought by the D. of M. curing a young Wench of the Kings Evil , as it is related at large by B. Harris in his Prot. Intelligence , publish'd Friday Jan. 7th . 1681. to prevent false Reports . AS Popish Farriers use t'imploy In their own Trade the good St. Loy , The Saint to whom they have recourse , As to Heav'ns Master of the Horse ; To Him they loudly cry for Mercy On ragged Colts that have the Farcy : For Hackneys gall'd to Him they pray , And drink dead drunk upon his Day : So to His Grace of M ------ trots A Filly Fole that had the Botts ; For still she knew , and 'twas no News , He keeps the Mares , though not the Mews . But had you seen the skittish Jade , You would have thought her Drunk or Mad ; For at first dash his Hand she seiz'd , Much was th'ambitious Hero pleas'd . So sweetly did DONE Quixot grinn , When the Maid Marrian of the Inn , He thought was some Enchanted Queen . Asked his dead-doing Hand to kiss ; But what White Devil danc'd in this ? Some Fly , some Rat , or great old Puss , Or Spirit Mephostophilus ; Or Pug , that Paracelsus wore In th' Pommel of his Sword before ; Or Healing Virtue that as rare is , Is sent His Grace by's Aunt of Fairies , Who aids him thus in hugger mugger ; So did Doll Common Abel Drugger . Some sweaty Devil in his Palm , Transfuses Brine instead of Balm ; And Brine you know is good for th'Itch , In any Mangy Dog or Bitch : Long in his Fist the Leprous Drab , Paddles and pores familiar Scab ! The Witch her Dam had set her Fancy Agog upon this Chyromancy ; To view each Line the Hag importunes , And thus young Gypsie reads his Fortune's . The Men of Westminster shall pass High Votes in Honour of your Grace ; No Prayers for fear of the Black Rod , They'l Vote ( I fear ) no King , no God . Great stickling there shall be for Two , Pillory'd Benjamin , and You. What will You give Me this next Spring , If then You are not Crown'd a King ? By Oats before we reap next Crop , Oats in a Tub shall Preach You up . So Sybil ended her vile guessing , And each to other gave their Blessing . But Oh the Green-sick Girls may boast , This Duke hath cur'd Them to His Cost ; Though now he cuts his Capers high , He may with Falstaff one day cry ; When Age hath set him in the Stocks , A Pox of my Gout , a Gout on my Pox. The Lion Rampant is too wise , To touch a Prince though in disguise ; Much less a Prince so Kind and Civil , To touch a Kingdom for Kings-Evil . He means to make it for its health , A Common-Whore , a Commonwealth . The Stroaker Graitrix was a Sot , And all his Feat-tricks are forgotten ; But Duke Trinculo , and Tom Dory , Will be a Famous Quack in Story . Let every scabby City-Cuckow , Fly into your Hedge-lane to look you . If seventh Sons doe things so rare , In You seven Father's have a share ; Show us some more of these fine mocks , Show your Black Art , show your Black Box ; 'Tis thought you've there some pure Receipt , Great Mountibank of our sick State Your Zany , who this Cure reveals , Tells us in March your Highness heals . FINIS . A Canto on the new Miracle wrought by the D. of M. curing a young Wench of the Kings Evil , as it is related at large by B. Harris in his Prot. Intelligence , publish'd Friday Jan. 7th . 1681. to prevent false Reports . AS Popish Farriers use t'imploy In their own Trade the good St. Loy , The Saint to whom they have recourse , As to Heav'ns Master of the Horse ; To Him they loudly cry for Mercy On ragged Colts that have the Farcy : For Hackneys gall'd to Him they pray , And drink dead drunk upon his Day : So to His Grace of M ------ trots A Filly Fole that had the Botts ; For still she knew , and 'twas no News , He keeps the Mares , though not the Mews . But had you seen the skittish Jade , You would have thought her Drunk or Mad ; For at first dash his Hand she seiz'd , Much was th'ambitious Hero pleas'd . So sweetly did DONE Quixot grinn , When the Maid Marrian of the Inn , He thought was some Enchanted Queen . Asked his dead-doing Hand to kiss ; But what White Devil danc'd in this ? Some Fly , some Rat , or great old Puss , Or Spirit Mephostophilus ; Or Pug , that Paracelsus wore In th' Pommel of his Sword before ; Or Healing Virtue that as rare is , Is sent His Grace by's Aunt of Fairies , Who aids him thus in hugger mugger ; So did Doll Common Abel Drugger . Some sweaty Devil in his Palm , Transfuses Brine instead of Balm ; And Brine you know is good for th'Itch , In any Mangy Dog or Bitch : Long in his Fist the Leprous Drab , Paddles and pores familiar Scab ! The Witch her Dam had set her Fancy Agog upon this Chyromancy ; To view each Line the Hag importunes , And thus young Gypsie reads his Fortune's . The Men of Westminster shall pass High Votes in Honour of your Grace ; No Prayers for fear of the Black Rod , They'l Vote ( I fear ) no King , no God . Great stickling there shall be for Two , Pillory'd Benjamin , and You. What will You give Me this next Spring , If then You are not Crown'd a King ? By Oats before we reap next Crop , Oats in a Tub shall Preach You up . So Sybil ended her vile guessing , And each to other gave their Blessing . But Oh the Green-sick Girls may boast , This Duke hath cur'd Them to His Cost ; Though now he cuts his Capers high , He may with Falstaff one day cry ; When Age hath set him in the Stocks , A Pox of my Gout , a Gout on my Pox. The Lion Rampant is too wise , To touch a Prince though in disguise ; Much less a Prince so Kind and Civil , To touch a Kingdom for Kings-Evil . He means to make it for its health , A Common-Whore , a Commonwealth . The Stroaker Graitrix was a Sot , And all his Feat-tricks are forgotten ; But Duke Trinculo , and Tom Dory , Will be a Famous Quack in Story . Let every scabby City-Cuckow , Fly into your Hedge-lane to look you . If seventh Sons doe things so rare , In You seven Father's have a share ; Show us some more of these fine mocks , Show your Black Art , show your Black Box ; 'Tis thought you've there some pure Receipt , Great Mountibank of our sick State Your Zany , who this Cure reveals , Tells us in March your Highness heals . FINIS . 