A Famous SEA-FIGHT , BETWEEN Captain Ward and the Rainbow . STRIKE up you lusty gallants , With music beatrice of drum , For we have god a Rover Upon the sea is come : His name is Captain Ward , Right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rover , Found out these thousand years . For he hath sent unto the King , The sixth of January , Desiring that he may come in , With all his company , And if the King will let me come , Till I my tale have told , I will b [ e ] stow for my ransom , Full thirty tun of gold . O nay , Oh nay , then said the King , Oh nay that must not be , To yield to such a Rover , Myself will not agree . He hath deceiv'd the Frenchmen , Likewise the King of Spain , Then how can he be true to me , Who has been false to twain , With that the King provided , A ship of worthy fame , The Rainbow she is called , If you would know her name . And now the gallant Rainbow , She rolls upon the sea , Five hundred gallant seamen , To keep her company , The Dutchmen and the Spaniards , She made them for to flee , Also the bonny Frenchmen , As she met on the sea . When as the gallant Rainbow , Did come where he did lie , Where is the captain of that ship . The Rainbow she did cry . O that am I , says Capt. Ward , There's one bids me lie , And if thou art the King's fair ship , Thou'rt welcome unto me . I'll tell thee what , said the Rainbow , Our King is in great grief , That thou should'st lie upon the seas , And play the errant thief . You will not let our Merchantmen , Pass as they did before ; Such tidings to our King is come , Which grieves his heart full before . With that this gallant Rainbow , She shot out of her pride , Full fifty good brass pieces , Charged on every side . And yet these gallant shooters , Prevailed not a pin , Tho' they were brass on the outside , Brave Ward was steel within . Shoot on , Shoot on , said Captain Ward , Your sport well pleases me , And he that first gives over , Shall yield unto the sea . I never wrong'd and English ship , But Turk and King of Spain , Likewise the blackguard Dutchmen , Which I met on the main : If I had known your king , But two or three days before , I would have sav'd Lord Essex's life , Whose death does grieve me soar . Go tell the king of England , Go tell him this from me , If he reigns king of all the land , I will reign king at sea . With that the gallant Rainbow , She shot and shot in vain , Then left the Rover's company , And home return'd again . Our royal King of England , Your ship's return'd again , For Captain Ward he is so strong , He never will be ta'en . Oh! everlasting said the King , I have lost jewels three , Which would have gone unto the sea , And brought proud Ward to me , The first was Lord Clifford , Great Earl of Cumberland , The second was Lord Mountjoy . As you shall understand . The third was brave Lord Essex , From field would never flee ; Who would have gone unto the sea , And brought proud Ward to me . A Famous SEA-FIGHT , BETWEEN Captain Ward and the Rainbow . STRIKE up you lusty gallants , With music beatrice of drum , For we have god a Rover Upon the sea is come : His name is Captain Ward , Right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rover , Found out these thousand years . For he hath sent unto the King , The sixth of January , Desiring that he may come in , With all his company , And if the King will let me come , Till I my tale have told , I will b [ e ] stow for my ransom , Full thirty tun of gold . O nay , Oh nay , then said the King , Oh nay that must not be , To yield to such a Rover , Myself will not agree . He hath deceiv'd the Frenchmen , Likewise the King of Spain , Then how can he be true to me , Who has been false to twain , With that the King provided , A ship of worthy fame , The Rainbow she is called , If you would know her name . And now the gallant Rainbow , She rolls upon the sea , Five hundred gallant seamen , To keep her company , The Dutchmen and the Spaniards , She made them for to flee , Also the bonny Frenchmen , As she met on the sea . When as the gallant Rainbow , Did come where he did lie , Where is the captain of that ship . The Rainbow she did cry . O that am I , says Capt. Ward , There's one bids me lie , And if thou art the King's fair ship , Thou'rt welcome unto me . I'll tell thee what , said the Rainbow , Our King is in great grief , That thou should'st lie upon the seas , And play the errant thief . You will not let our Merchantmen , Pass as they did before ; Such tidings to our King is come , Which grieves his heart full before . With that this gallant Rainbow , She shot out of her pride , Full fifty good brass pieces , Charged on every side . And yet these gallant shooters , Prevailed not a pin , Tho' they were brass on the outside , Brave Ward was steel within . Shoot on , Shoot on , said Captain Ward , Your sport well pleases me , And he that first gives over , Shall yield unto the sea . I never wrong'd and English ship , But Turk and King of Spain , Likewise the blackguard Dutchmen , Which I met on the main : If I had known your king , But two or three days before , I would have sav'd Lord Essex's life , Whose death does grieve me soar . Go tell the king of England , Go tell him this from me , If he reigns king of all the land , I will reign king at sea . With that the gallant Rainbow , She shot and shot in vain , Then left the Rover's company , And home return'd again . Our royal King of England , Your ship's return'd again , For Captain Ward he is so strong , He never will be ta'en . Oh! everlasting said the King , I have lost jewels three , Which would have gone unto the sea , And brought proud Ward to me , The first was Lord Clifford , Great Earl of Cumberland , The second was Lord Mountjoy . As you shall understand . The third was brave Lord Essex , From field would never flee ; Who would have gone unto the sea , And brought proud Ward to me . 