And Excellent SONG , CALL'D The Frighted French , OR , Russel Scouring the Seas . to a pleasant Tune . RUssel on the Ocean , Minding Turvils Motion , Made them to run at the noise of our Guns And Thoulon shall be their portion , The French must trot it home by Land , While Russel on the Seas Command , Found the Trumpet beatrice the Drum while the French do run , Found the Trumpet , etc Found the Trumpet etc Still before us . Now the Spring's a coming , Our English will be burning Your Towns that be built near the Sea , You'll find the Seamen Booming ; Then let your Armies all advance , Yet we'll lie on the Coast of France , Sounding Trumpet beating Drum while their Towns do burn . Sounding Trumpet , etc Sounding Trumpet , etc Unto Ashes . The Turk and the Barbarian , How the English Fleet do sear 'em , And make them to know before they do go , That the French shall dread and fear 'em , Now Monsieur bring out all you can , We'll fight you Ship , or Man for Man , Found the Trumpet beatrice the Drum , if the French do come , Found the Trumpet , etc Found the Trumpet , etc We will fight 'em . Each brave English Freeman Will be a jolly Seaman ; With Russel we'll go for to fight the Foe , For the Honour of old England ; Let Tourvil with his Fleet then come , Some we'll sink , and some we'll burn , Gun for Gun we'll give them too , while they cry Morblew , Gun for Gun , etc Gun for Gun , etc We are routed . The Turk , they are much grieved , Although they still believed That the French Fleet could the English beatrice , But now they are deceived , In Tholoon they all do sneak and hide , While Russel in the Straights do ride . Daring Tourvil for to come and bring out his Fleet , Daring , etc Daring , etc For to Fight us . Since the French are frighted , They by the World are slighted , For Russel the brave is Resolv'd for to have The English Nation Righted , He cares not what the French can do , Since the Read Squadron and the Blue Are full resolved for to be Master's of the Sea , Are full , etc Are full , etc 'n spite of Monsieur . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1695. And Excellent SONG , CALL'D The Frighted French , OR , Russel Scouring the Seas . to a pleasant Tune . RUssel on the Ocean , Minding Turvils Motion , Made them to run at the noise of our Guns And Thoulon shall be their portion , The French must trot it home by Land , While Russel on the Seas Command , Found the Trumpet beatrice the Drum while the French do run , Found the Trumpet , etc Found the Trumpet etc Still before us . Now the Spring's a coming , Our English will be burning Your Towns that be built near the Sea , You'll find the Seamen Booming ; Then let your Armies all advance , Yet we'll lie on the Coast of France , Sounding Trumpet beating Drum while their Towns do burn . Sounding Trumpet , etc Sounding Trumpet , etc Unto Ashes . The Turk and the Barbarian , How the English Fleet do sear 'em , And make them to know before they do go , That the French shall dread and fear 'em , Now Monsieur bring out all you can , We'll fight you Ship , or Man for Man , Found the Trumpet beatrice the Drum , if the French do come , Found the Trumpet , etc Found the Trumpet , etc We will fight 'em . Each brave English Freeman Will be a jolly Seaman ; With Russel we'll go for to fight the Foe , For the Honour of old England ; Let Tourvil with his Fleet then come , Some we'll sink , and some we'll burn , Gun for Gun we'll give them too , while they cry Morblew , Gun for Gun , etc Gun for Gun , etc We are routed . The Turk , they are much grieved , Although they still believed That the French Fleet could the English beatrice , But now they are deceived , In Tholoon they all do sneak and hide , While Russel in the Straights do ride . Daring Tourvil for to come and bring out his Fleet , Daring , etc Daring , etc For to Fight us . Since the French are frighted , They by the World are slighted , For Russel the brave is Resolv'd for to have The English Nation Righted , He cares not what the French can do , Since the Read Squadron and the Blue Are full resolved for to be Master's of the Sea , Are full , etc Are full , etc 'n spite of Monsieur . London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 1695. 