And Excellent new Playhouse SONG , Call'd , The Faithful LOVERS , Or , The Young Man's Earnest Request To His Mistress . With her kind Answer to her LOVER . To the Tune of , Found Boy . With Allowance . SUch commands over my fate has your love or your hate That nothing can make me more wretched or great , While expecting I lie to live or to die , Thus doubtful the Sentence on which I rely , Your tongue bids me go , though your Eyes say no so , But much kinder words from their Language does floe . Then leave me not here thus betwixt hope and fear , Where your love cannot come let your pity appear ; But this my Request you must grant me at least , And more I'll not ask but to you leave the rest , If my Fate I must meet let it be at your Feet , Death there with more joy then life elsewhere I'd greet . Be quick in my doom , whither Blessed or Undone , And leave me not here for to perish alone ; If I die with the pain , look but kindly again , And I doubt not but of new life to obtain : For your goodness is such you can never do too much To keep from all harms a poor languishing wretch . For the torment I bear is beyond all compare , Till your whispering tongue shall bid me not despair , Then the sufferings gone will never be thought on , But will be employed on the Joy that's to come , Did but Cupid's love dart gently once touch your heart , You'd say it were pleasing though it caused a smart . The Young Lady's Answer . SInce my love or my hate does command over your Fate ; This Love I must own if it comes not too late , In what sorrow I lie for fear you should die , Oh where's all my hope's then on which I rely , Though my tongue bid you go , still my Eyes cried no , While my Heart for your troubles with sorrow did flow . Our Sex oft do cry , we the Man do defy , Tho' we know the same minute our tongue gives the lie , But now I do own in the World there is none But yourself that has gained my heart for your own : Then here while I live you may freely receive Whatere in my power I am able to give . Printed for Charles Barnet , 1694. And Excellent new Playhouse SONG , Call'd , The Faithful LOVERS , Or , The Young Man's Earnest Request To His Mistress . With her kind Answer to her LOVER . To the Tune of , Found Boy . With Allowance . SUch commands over my fate has your love or your hate That nothing can make me more wretched or great , While expecting I lie to live or to die , Thus doubtful the Sentence on which I rely , Your tongue bids me go , though your Eyes say no so , But much kinder words from their Language does floe . Then leave me not here thus betwixt hope and fear , Where your love cannot come let your pity appear ; But this my Request you must grant me at least , And more I'll not ask but to you leave the rest , If my Fate I must meet let it be at your Feet , Death there with more joy then life elsewhere I'd greet . Be quick in my doom , whither Blessed or Undone , And leave me not here for to perish alone ; If I die with the pain , look but kindly again , And I doubt not but of new life to obtain : For your goodness is such you can never do too much To keep from all harms a poor languishing wretch . For the torment I bear is beyond all compare , Till your whispering tongue shall bid me not despair , Then the sufferings gone will never be thought on , But will be employed on the Joy that's to come , Did but Cupid's love dart gently once touch your heart , You'd say it were pleasing though it caused a smart . The Young Lady's Answer . SInce my love or my hate does command over your Fate ; This Love I must own if it comes not too late , In what sorrow I lie for fear you should die , Oh where's all my hope's then on which I rely , Though my tongue bid you go , still my Eyes cried no , While my Heart for your troubles with sorrow did flow . Our Sex oft do cry , we the Man do defy , Tho' we know the same minute our tongue gives the lie , But now I do own in the World there is none But yourself that has gained my heart for your own : Then here while I live you may freely receive Whatere in my power I am able to give . Printed for Charles Barnet , 1694. 