And Excellent New SONG , Call'd , The Charming Regents Wish , OR , ROYAL and FAIR . To a pleasant New Tune . I . ROyal and Fair , Great Willy's dear Blessing , The Charming Regent of the Swain , Heavy with Care thus sadly expressing Her Grief , sat weeping on the Plain ; Why did my Fate Exalt me so high , If fading State must deprive me of Joy , While Willy is gone , Ah! how vainly shines the Sun , Till Fate Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft him to me . II Large are my Flocks and flowery my Pasture , Worth Treasures vast of Silver and Gold , Where Rav'nous Wolves conspire to be Master's , Devour all my Lambs , and break down my Folds ; Willy while here Secur'd me from Fear , All the wild Heard stood in awe of Dear , But poor helpless I , Mourning Sighs , and hourly Cry , Let Fates Decree The Winds and Sea , Waft waft Willy to me . II Valiant and Wise he now 'mong the Princes , Consults and Acts for England's good , Noble and Bold his Foes he convinces , With Danger he's to be withstood , His Glory there Increases my Fear , Since to his Enemies he is so near ; His Courage of Fire Makes me still wish and desire ; Till Fates Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft him to me . IV. While he abroad does our Enemies vanquish , The Rav'nous Boars and Foxes of France , Our homebred Wolves do hear it with anguish And Scandals 'gainst his Fame advance ; They all profess , That England they Love , Yet wish them Success , whose fierce hatred we prove But they'll be content , They'r gross Folly to Repent , When Fates Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft him to me . V. Though Willy's Love to me is exceeding , Yet is his Love to Honour more , He cannot see brave Europe Bleeding , But lends his Hav'n assisted Power ; Ireland has shown Some wonders he's done ; And now in Flanders new Laurels are wone , Then calm thee my Breast , Free from Fear and Sorrow rest , Tiil Fates Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft Willy to me . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . And Excellent New SONG , Call'd , The Charming Regents Wish , OR , ROYAL and FAIR . To a pleasant New Tune . I . ROyal and Fair , Great Willy's dear Blessing , The Charming Regent of the Swain , Heavy with Care thus sadly expressing Her Grief , sat weeping on the Plain ; Why did my Fate Exalt me so high , If fading State must deprive me of Joy , While Willy is gone , Ah! how vainly shines the Sun , Till Fate Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft him to me . II Large are my Flocks and flowery my Pasture , Worth Treasures vast of Silver and Gold , Where Rav'nous Wolves conspire to be Master's , Devour all my Lambs , and break down my Folds ; Willy while here Secur'd me from Fear , All the wild Heard stood in awe of Dear , But poor helpless I , Mourning Sighs , and hourly Cry , Let Fates Decree The Winds and Sea , Waft waft Willy to me . II Valiant and Wise he now 'mong the Princes , Consults and Acts for England's good , Noble and Bold his Foes he convinces , With Danger he's to be withstood , His Glory there Increases my Fear , Since to his Enemies he is so near ; His Courage of Fire Makes me still wish and desire ; Till Fates Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft him to me . IV. While he abroad does our Enemies vanquish , The Rav'nous Boars and Foxes of France , Our homebred Wolves do hear it with anguish And Scandals 'gainst his Fame advance ; They all profess , That England they Love , Yet wish them Success , whose fierce hatred we prove But they'll be content , They'r gross Folly to Repent , When Fates Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft him to me . V. Though Willy's Love to me is exceeding , Yet is his Love to Honour more , He cannot see brave Europe Bleeding , But lends his Hav'n assisted Power ; Ireland has shown Some wonders he's done ; And now in Flanders new Laurels are wone , Then calm thee my Breast , Free from Fear and Sorrow rest , Tiil Fates Decree The Wind and Sea , Waft waft Willy to me . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 