Sweet Williams kindness , OR , The Hertford-Shire Frolic . Now Christmas time is drawing near , 'Tis good to taste of threepenny Beer ; 'Twill make you hight when you are cold , If bashful it will make you bold , As by the Sequel you may find If you do please my Song to mind Tune is , A Fig for France . THe strangest news you e're did hear Was lately done in Hertfordshire , By one sweet William a brisk young lad Who tickled the girls till he made them mad Then pray give ear unto the rest , And you shall hear my pleasant jest , For Hannah , Moll , and Betty and all , Sweet William jumbled against the Wall . They Drank full hard it does appear , Yea 16 quarts , of 3 penny Beer , Which cheer'd their hearts & made them warm Poor souls they then thought little harm : But now I pray give ear to this , Sweet William had a mind to kiss , and they resolv'd to venture all , with this brisk Lad against the Wall . With courage bold sweet William went , Not fearing for to give content . Sweet William did appear so brisk , That Hannah cry'd 'twas pretty fisk , Which fill'd the other with warm desire Their hearts then burned like flames of fire but he promised to please them all , and so he did against the Wall . The next touch fell to Molly's share , Who with impatience waited there . She thought poor Hannah had too much , And long'd for such another touch , Quoth William prithee do not fear , For were there twenty Lasses here : I would not doubt , etc Then Betty she began to cry , You all must trounced be but I , But I'm resolv'd e're hence sou stir , To dance a jig with you kind Sir , He would by no means her deny , And to't they went courageously , so Hannah , Moll , and Betty , and all , were bravely trounc'd against the Wall . And Old Woman peeping out of door Saw more then e're she saw before , They were so brisk , so brave and free That she grew wanton presently , And vow'd if she were young again , That pretty sport she'd ne'r refrain : So Hannah etc Sweet William that I here have nam'd , Of this same prank is not asham'd , He is a brisk and bonny Blade , And wish'd a Song there might be made , Was ever Maids so kind to men , To bid them cut and come again ? It was most pleasant , etc You Maids that live in Hertfordshire . When of this story you do hear , If young men's kindnesses are scant , And you perhaps may be in want , On Market days come you to Ware , And you may find sweet William there , he'l ready be to please you all , and do the trick against the wall . He is a bold and thundering Lad , He'l make you laugh when you are sad ; And when you burn with fiery flame , He'l let you blood in the right vein , He hath a cure for each disease , And instrument that Maids will please , A Remedy , etc So to conclude and make and end , To sweet William I you recommend , And if you come to him for cure , Some pleasing pain you must endure , And if you are but frank and free , He'l give you ease immediately : for Hannah , Moll , and Betty and all , he bravely trounc'd against the Wall . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Sweet Williams kindness , OR , The Hertford-Shire Frolic . Now Christmas time is drawing near , 'Tis good to taste of threepenny Beer ; 'Twill make you hight when you are cold , If bashful it will make you bold , As by the Sequel you may find If you do please my Song to mind Tune is , A Fig for France . THe strangest news you e're did hear Was lately done in Hertfordshire , By one sweet William a brisk young lad Who tickled the girls till he made them mad Then pray give ear unto the rest , And you shall hear my pleasant jest , For Hannah , Moll , and Betty and all , Sweet William jumbled against the Wall . They Drank full hard it does appear , Yea 16 quarts , of 3 penny Beer , Which cheer'd their hearts & made them warm Poor souls they then thought little harm : But now I pray give ear to this , Sweet William had a mind to kiss , and they resolv'd to venture all , with this brisk Lad against the Wall . With courage bold sweet William went , Not fearing for to give content . Sweet William did appear so brisk , That Hannah cry'd 'twas pretty fisk , Which fill'd the other with warm desire Their hearts then burned like flames of fire but he promised to please them all , and so he did against the Wall . The next touch fell to Molly's share , Who with impatience waited there . She thought poor Hannah had too much , And long'd for such another touch , Quoth William prithee do not fear , For were there twenty Lasses here : I would not doubt , etc Then Betty she began to cry , You all must trounced be but I , But I'm resolv'd e're hence sou stir , To dance a jig with you kind Sir , He would by no means her deny , And to't they went courageously , so Hannah , Moll , and Betty , and all , were bravely trounc'd against the Wall . And Old Woman peeping out of door Saw more then e're she saw before , They were so brisk , so brave and free That she grew wanton presently , And vow'd if she were young again , That pretty sport she'd ne'r refrain : So Hannah etc Sweet William that I here have nam'd , Of this same prank is not asham'd , He is a brisk and bonny Blade , And wish'd a Song there might be made , Was ever Maids so kind to men , To bid them cut and come again ? It was most pleasant , etc You Maids that live in Hertfordshire . When of this story you do hear , If young men's kindnesses are scant , And you perhaps may be in want , On Market days come you to Ware , And you may find sweet William there , he'l ready be to please you all , and do the trick against the wall . He is a bold and thundering Lad , He'l make you laugh when you are sad ; And when you burn with fiery flame , He'l let you blood in the right vein , He hath a cure for each disease , And instrument that Maids will please , A Remedy , etc So to conclude and make and end , To sweet William I you recommend , And if you come to him for cure , Some pleasing pain you must endure , And if you are but frank and free , He'l give you ease immediately : for Hannah , Moll , and Betty and all , he bravely trounc'd against the Wall . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 