THE Scotch Soldiers Kindness . It being the Sorrowful Ditty of Fifty Young Damsels of Southwark , who lately lost their Maidenheads with those Valiant Soldiers lately Quartered in that Place . Stout Soldiers then are Valiant Men , Their Fame will ever Ring , We may admit that they should get Brave Soldiers for the KING : In Warlike Fights , both Lords and Knights , And Valiant Soldiers die , Then well may they with Damsels play , To get a New Supply . To the Tune of , The Crafty Miss . This may be Printed , R.L.S. June 25. SCotch Jemmy , and Jockey , and Sawny , with many brisk Lads of that Land , Stout hearted Courageous and brawny , brave Boys that were under command : Near Southwark a while they remained , where Damsels they daily did court , Their favour they quickly obtained , and then there was sport upon sport . Those Lads were both Jovial and Jolly , as Blithe as the Birds in the Spring With Jenny , and Maudlin , and Dolly , they boldly did run at the Ring : Those girls when the bargain was making they vow'd they should play in the dark , But yet if I am not mistaken , theres none could come nearer the mark It seems there is forty or fifty young Girls that for gaming did strive , But yet they were wondrous thrifty , for now they do happily thrive : And also respect without measure , those Soldiers they then did adore , Since they were endu'd with that treasure they never enjoyed before . But while they were Courting and toying they thought it would never be day , But now comes the woeful annoying when thence they were Marching away Then Margery , Winny , and Marry , with Jude , and Gillian , and Kate Young Nelly , and Susan , and Sarah , a pitiful Tale did relate . Ah this is their sorrowful ditty , to see they are utterly left , Their friends will afford them no pity , now they of all joys are beref Quoth Doll let us draw a Petition to send to the Captain with speed , Wherein we'l declare our condition , quoth Jude let this be agree'd . They sent for a Scrivener to write it , a neighbour that lived hard by , He had a cute wit to Indite it , and knew how the mater did lie : Oh this is our hearty desire , to marry and make us their Bride , Our love shall be always entire , we'l follow the Camp by their side . Their Writing they thought to deliver , and Husbands they thought to obtain , Poor girls they did use their endeavour , but still it did prove but in vain : They are in a woeful condition , alas they look pitiful wan , For when they came with their Petition , the Captain and Soldiers were gone . O then what a woeful Narration , these fifty young Damsels did make Being crossed in their expectation , they knew not what course for to take : Then Maudlin with Jude and Betty , together with all the whole train , Did found forth their sorrowful Ditty , and weeping they sighs and complain . But seeing it hath been our folly , no remedy now can be made , Come let us be ruled by Dolly , how thus in discretion hath said : My Sisters why should we be daunted , and Jude was just of that mind , We will not with sorrows be haunted , for once being loving and kind . We'l leave it Girls when we grow older , now once it is gone let it go , I am glad that upon a brave Soldier , my Maidenhead I did bestow : Then follow my kind exhortation , and on it we'l set a good face , We'l fear not the World's exclamation , a Fig for the thoughts of disgrace . Entered According to Order . Printed for I . Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - Spur-Street , without Newgate . THE Scotch Soldiers Kindness . It being the Sorrowful Ditty of Fifty Young Damsels of Southwark , who lately lost their Maidenheads with those Valiant Soldiers lately Quartered in that Place . Stout Soldiers then are Valiant Men , Their Fame will ever Ring , We may admit that they should get Brave Soldiers for the KING : In Warlike Fights , both Lords and Knights , And Valiant Soldiers die , Then well may they with Damsels play , To get a New Supply . To the Tune of , The Crafty Miss . This may be Printed , R.L.S. June 25. SCotch Jemmy , and Jockey , and Sawny , with many brisk Lads of that Land , Stout hearted Courageous and brawny , brave Boys that were under command : Near Southwark a while they remained , where Damsels they daily did court , Their favour they quickly obtained , and then there was sport upon sport . Those Lads were both Jovial and Jolly , as Blithe as the Birds in the Spring With Jenny , and Maudlin , and Dolly , they boldly did run at the Ring : Those girls when the bargain was making they vow'd they should play in the dark , But yet if I am not mistaken , theres none could come nearer the mark It seems there is forty or fifty young Girls that for gaming did strive , But yet they were wondrous thrifty , for now they do happily thrive : And also respect without measure , those Soldiers they then did adore , Since they were endu'd with that treasure they never enjoyed before . But while they were Courting and toying they thought it would never be day , But now comes the woeful annoying when thence they were Marching away Then Margery , Winny , and Marry , with Jude , and Gillian , and Kate Young Nelly , and Susan , and Sarah , a pitiful Tale did relate . Ah this is their sorrowful ditty , to see they are utterly left , Their friends will afford them no pity , now they of all joys are beref Quoth Doll let us draw a Petition to send to the Captain with speed , Wherein we'l declare our condition , quoth Jude let this be agree'd . They sent for a Scrivener to write it , a neighbour that lived hard by , He had a cute wit to Indite it , and knew how the mater did lie : Oh this is our hearty desire , to marry and make us their Bride , Our love shall be always entire , we'l follow the Camp by their side . Their Writing they thought to deliver , and Husbands they thought to obtain , Poor girls they did use their endeavour , but still it did prove but in vain : They are in a woeful condition , alas they look pitiful wan , For when they came with their Petition , the Captain and Soldiers were gone . O then what a woeful Narration , these fifty young Damsels did make Being crossed in their expectation , they knew not what course for to take : Then Maudlin with Jude and Betty , together with all the whole train , Did found forth their sorrowful Ditty , and weeping they sighs and complain . But seeing it hath been our folly , no remedy now can be made , Come let us be ruled by Dolly , how thus in discretion hath said : My Sisters why should we be daunted , and Jude was just of that mind , We will not with sorrows be haunted , for once being loving and kind . We'l leave it Girls when we grow older , now once it is gone let it go , I am glad that upon a brave Soldier , my Maidenhead I did bestow : Then follow my kind exhortation , and on it we'l set a good face , We'l fear not the World's exclamation , a Fig for the thoughts of disgrace . Entered According to Order . Printed for I . Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - Spur-Street , without Newgate . 