The Shepherd's Glory : OR , A pleasant Song o' that Shepherd Swain , Who feed their Flocks upon the plain : Whose Arms and Honour far outshines The Coesar's and great Constantines . To the Tune of , True love rewarded with loyalty : Or , Flora Farewell . NOw I am in a merry vein , I'le sing about the Shepherd Swain ; Who night and day the Fields do keep , To wait upon the flocks of Sheep . In Royal Tombs some of them lie , And are of great Antiquity : Their Ancientry quite out does run , To Father Adams second Son , Who though he was by's Brother slave , Yet first he was a Shepherd Swain ; Who did a Lamb to'th Altar bring , And made it his burnt-Offering . The Lamb was innocent from harms , And thence became the Shepherd's Arms : The ignorant do little know , The Royal Escutcheons they can show . The Second part , the same Tune . THe next man that i' that field appears , Was Abraham with his Ram i' that briers , But if he led them in the Hain , A Whistle brings them back again . And Jacob gain'd the Cherubin , When th' Angel was o'recome by him : Where like a Prince he did prevail , And chang'd his name to Israel . The Knitter and the Taylor too , Without the Fleece can little do : Were it not for the Shepherd Swain , The Wheel and Loom were made in vain . And Moses brought the Bush on fire , And joyn'd to Abrahams Ram i'th Brier : And Judah Father of the Kings , The mighty Couching Lion brings . A Bear and Lion both were slave , When David was a Shepherd swain : Three Shepherd's came from East so far , Their only guide the Shepherd's star . These were the tidings they did bring , To Israel is born a King : And David us'd the staff and sling , Before that he was Judah's King . But when he had Goliah slave , He left those Army to'th shepherd swain : Which in those days were of Renown , When Moses spurn'd at Pharoahs Crown . And left the Court and took the Fields , Which braver sport and pleasure yields : Which are bestrew'd with pleasant flowers , And are bedew'd with Chrystial showers . Which makes their Beauty to excel , And send forth a most fragrant smell : Where Nightingales i'th Bushes sing , For to salute the early spring . Where towering Larks do soar on high , In consort , making Melody : Where Chanting Birds i'th woods do sing Which makes the hallow Valleys ring . Where flocks of sheep slaight on the dounds , And shepherd's guide and keep their bounds : And led them into Valleys green , Where chrystial streams , the hills between . Do trickle down and freely spring , Which makes the shepherd swains to sing : A Horned sheep a Bell does Ring , And guides the rest much like a King . And from the hight and scorching Sun , The Groves do shade the flock at Noon : The Shepherd with his Pipe and Reed , Makes Melody , while they do feed . A Box of Tar a Dog does bear , Which is for Sheep and Ointment rare : The use whereof all Shepherd's know , Therefore in vain the Fly does blow . Though Frost and snow do pinch with cold , The Shepherd will not leave his Fold : And carefully his flock does feed , But does supply what else they need . And while the Ewes do eat their Hay , The Lambs do frisk about and play : The Shepherd's pleas'd for to behold , The Lambs a dancing round the Fold . None with the Shepherd may compare , For useful and substantial Ware : 'Tis with the Fleece that Women Spin , And so the Weaving trade comes in . Now Shepherd's I leave you all , To him that does and ever shall ; Who can alone in safety keep , The pleasant Shepherd's and their Sheep . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . The Shepherd's Glory : OR , A pleasant Song o' that Shepherd Swain , Who feed their Flocks upon the plain : Whose Arms and Honour far outshines The Coesar's and great Constantines . To the Tune of , True love rewarded with loyalty : Or , Flora Farewell . NOw I am in a merry vein , I'le sing about the Shepherd Swain ; Who night and day the Fields do keep , To wait upon the flocks of Sheep . In Royal Tombs some of them lie , And are of great Antiquity : Their Ancientry quite out does run , To Father Adams second Son , Who though he was by's Brother slave , Yet first he was a Shepherd Swain ; Who did a Lamb to'th Altar bring , And made it his burnt-Offering . The Lamb was innocent from harms , And thence became the Shepherd's Arms : The ignorant do little know , The Royal Escutcheons they can show . The Second part , the same Tune . THe next man that i' that field appears , Was Abraham with his Ram i' that briers , But if he led them in the Hain , A Whistle brings them back again . And Jacob gain'd the Cherubin , When th' Angel was o'recome by him : Where like a Prince he did prevail , And chang'd his name to Israel . The Knitter and the Taylor too , Without the Fleece can little do : Were it not for the Shepherd Swain , The Wheel and Loom were made in vain . And Moses brought the Bush on fire , And joyn'd to Abrahams Ram i'th Brier : And Judah Father of the Kings , The mighty Couching Lion brings . A Bear and Lion both were slave , When David was a Shepherd swain : Three Shepherd's came from East so far , Their only guide the Shepherd's star . These were the tidings they did bring , To Israel is born a King : And David us'd the staff and sling , Before that he was Judah's King . But when he had Goliah slave , He left those Army to'th shepherd swain : Which in those days were of Renown , When Moses spurn'd at Pharoahs Crown . And left the Court and took the Fields , Which braver sport and pleasure yields : Which are bestrew'd with pleasant flowers , And are bedew'd with Chrystial showers . Which makes their Beauty to excel , And send forth a most fragrant smell : Where Nightingales i'th Bushes sing , For to salute the early spring . Where towering Larks do soar on high , In consort , making Melody : Where Chanting Birds i'th woods do sing Which makes the hallow Valleys ring . Where flocks of sheep slaight on the dounds , And shepherd's guide and keep their bounds : And led them into Valleys green , Where chrystial streams , the hills between . Do trickle down and freely spring , Which makes the shepherd swains to sing : A Horned sheep a Bell does Ring , And guides the rest much like a King . And from the hight and scorching Sun , The Groves do shade the flock at Noon : The Shepherd with his Pipe and Reed , Makes Melody , while they do feed . A Box of Tar a Dog does bear , Which is for Sheep and Ointment rare : The use whereof all Shepherd's know , Therefore in vain the Fly does blow . Though Frost and snow do pinch with cold , The Shepherd will not leave his Fold : And carefully his flock does feed , But does supply what else they need . And while the Ewes do eat their Hay , The Lambs do frisk about and play : The Shepherd's pleas'd for to behold , The Lambs a dancing round the Fold . None with the Shepherd may compare , For useful and substantial Ware : 'Tis with the Fleece that Women Spin , And so the Weaving trade comes in . Now Shepherd's I leave you all , To him that does and ever shall ; Who can alone in safety keep , The pleasant Shepherd's and their Sheep . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 