The Unconscionable Gallan OR , The Beautiful Lady's Misfortune . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Licensed according to Order . NOw I pray you attend , to the Lines that are penn'd , Which abroad to the World we in merriment send ; It is absolute new , and they say it is true , Therefore listen a while unto what shall ensue : A young Gallant of Fame to a Friend's House he came , Where he sent for a fair and young beautyful Dame . When her Charms he beheld he with Raptures was fill'd , Yet although he in Courting was very well Skill'd His fine Amorous Tale could in no wise prevail , For without Half a Piece of his Joys he should fail : Like a Lady of State she had told him the Rate , And this done , not a Penny or Farthing she'd Bait. Half a Piece is too much for a poor single touch , Therefore pray use a Conscience , for faith I do grutch To give more than a Crown for a bit of the Brown , I can have it for less of the Girls of the Town : Therefore make not this fuss , and stand scruing me thus , For a light Gain they say makes a rich golden Purse . If a Lady you lack , Sir , I stand to my tack , For I'll have you to know I am no common Crack , That for Six pence or less will their kindness express , You may see that I go in a rich silken Dress , Paint with powdered Hair and black Patches I wear , Which cannot be maintain'd with that Price I declare . Pry'the be not so nice , 'tis a very good Price , And thou knows very well 'twill be earn'd in a trice : Therefore do not deny , but with reason comply , And perhaps for my Jewel a Cornet I'll buy . But the Answer she gave , You must give what I crave 'Tis in vain to dispute , for ten shillings I'll have . When he found her so stout , he began to fallen out , And , as some says , he threaten'd to Kick her abou Since her price she'd not Bait , faith his Love turn'd to hate , And he threaten'd to Call for and Officer strai If you will have full Ten , I will punish you then That can be so hardhearted and Cruel to Men . Now the Lady Reply'd , in regard you'r deny'd , Can you be so uncivil your Friend to Deride ? Yes , I will then , he swore : And , Miss , what is more , Some good Justice of Peace you shall now go before , To Receive the Reward that the Law will afford . Straight with Tears in her Eyes she his pity implor'd . The Disgrace I do fear , therefore let me go clear , And my Scarf with Five Shillings , I'll tender you here , Had I here so much more , I would part with my store , For , alas ! I was never so fitted before . Then he pity'd her Case , and would hide the disgrace , And without more to do they departed the place . LONDON : Printed for C. Nates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . The Unconscionable Gallan OR , The Beautiful Lady's Misfortune . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Licensed according to Order . NOw I pray you attend , to the Lines that are penn'd , Which abroad to the World we in merriment send ; It is absolute new , and they say it is true , Therefore listen a while unto what shall ensue : A young Gallant of Fame to a Friend's House he came , Where he sent for a fair and young beautyful Dame . When her Charms he beheld he with Raptures was fill'd , Yet although he in Courting was very well Skill'd His fine Amorous Tale could in no wise prevail , For without Half a Piece of his Joys he should fail : Like a Lady of State she had told him the Rate , And this done , not a Penny or Farthing she'd Bait. Half a Piece is too much for a poor single touch , Therefore pray use a Conscience , for faith I do grutch To give more than a Crown for a bit of the Brown , I can have it for less of the Girls of the Town : Therefore make not this fuss , and stand scruing me thus , For a light Gain they say makes a rich golden Purse . If a Lady you lack , Sir , I stand to my tack , For I'll have you to know I am no common Crack , That for Six pence or less will their kindness express , You may see that I go in a rich silken Dress , Paint with powdered Hair and black Patches I wear , Which cannot be maintain'd with that Price I declare . Pry'the be not so nice , 'tis a very good Price , And thou knows very well 'twill be earn'd in a trice : Therefore do not deny , but with reason comply , And perhaps for my Jewel a Cornet I'll buy . But the Answer she gave , You must give what I crave 'Tis in vain to dispute , for ten shillings I'll have . When he found her so stout , he began to fallen out , And , as some says , he threaten'd to Kick her abou Since her price she'd not Bait , faith his Love turn'd to hate , And he threaten'd to Call for and Officer strai If you will have full Ten , I will punish you then That can be so hardhearted and Cruel to Men . Now the Lady Reply'd , in regard you'r deny'd , Can you be so uncivil your Friend to Deride ? Yes , I will then , he swore : And , Miss , what is more , Some good Justice of Peace you shall now go before , To Receive the Reward that the Law will afford . Straight with Tears in her Eyes she his pity implor'd . The Disgrace I do fear , therefore let me go clear , And my Scarf with Five Shillings , I'll tender you here , Had I here so much more , I would part with my store , For , alas ! I was never so fitted before . Then he pity'd her Case , and would hide the disgrace , And without more to do they departed the place . LONDON : Printed for C. Nates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . 