THE Jealous WEAVER . Who thought his Wife a Whore to be , And to the Priest complain did he . A Weaver Jealous of his Wife , like many , Dream'd still of Horns , before the Fool had any , The Truth whereof , desirous for to know , Sought more Ways out , than he had need to do ; And to a Fry [ r ] he goes , entreats him fair , [ TO ] oh shrive his Wife , and ease him of his Care . The Holy Friar , that the Goodman might know , Whither his Wife were Honest , yea , or no , Tell him , that he himself should be the Friar , And shrive her in the point he did desire ; Lends him forth with his Habit and his Hood , Instructs him in his Tone , and Holy Mood ; With Accents grave , and Cadences Divine . He glad of this to end his Jealous Dreads , Raid Friar-like , fell often to his Beads ; And all things fit and private as was meet , The Weaver Frier thus his Wife does greet . Sister draw near , let nothing now prevent , Confession is a blessed Instrument ; To cast you down and raise you up again , Grieved for your since to ease you of your pain : Wherefore conceal not from and Holy Friar , And unchaste thought , or and unchaste desire . Grave Sir , reply'd the poor afflicted Woman , I have done ill , and since I needs must summon ; My Thoughts and Deeds , I pardon pray for either , I and a Young man once did lie together , And is that all ? No , if you more inquire , I must confess , I once lay with a Friar , And is this all ? No , yet the more unholy , I and and Old man once committed folly ; And is this all ? Yes all . And does it grieve you ? Indeed it does , Then GOD , and I forgive you ; Depart in peace , and so the silly hearted Grave Friar Weaver , from his Wife departed , With Post and Speed the Friar does unlace , Gets to his Looms , and freets at his disgrace ; His Wife that all this while did swell with laughter , First sets a modest look , then bits it after . When home she comes , at every Shutles throw , She sees her Husbands brains begin to crow ; For as each hand he Shutle did deliver , A Youngman and and Old-man , quoth the Weaver , And to the Web still putting close the Comb , Cry'd Friar , Friar , and so he bit her home . His Wife that sat demurely all the while , And hardly yet could speak a Word but Smile , Broke silence thus , pray Husband what do you mean ? Troth I am a Cuckold Wife , and thou'rt a Quean , And could no less then three serve thy desire , A Young man , and and Old-man , and a Friar ? I'm glade I know it , I'll have a trick shall cool you , Husband there needs none , jealousy does fool you . Were you not Young ? are you not Older grown ? And were you not a Friar , if all were known ? If I did then confess , and you did Shrive me , I lay with no man else you may be believe ; Wherefore good Husband cease now to inquire , You were the Young man , the Old man , and a Friar . If it be so , then let our strife be done , I was a Friar indeed , be thou a Nun. I'll pardon thee , what then canst thou do less ? Then pardon me , since I my fault confess ? FINIS . THE Jealous WEAVER . Who thought his Wife a Whore to be , And to the Priest complain did he . A Weaver Jealous of his Wife , like many , Dream'd still of Horns , before the Fool had any , The Truth whereof , desirous for to know , Sought more Ways out , than he had need to do ; And to a Fry [ r ] he goes , entreats him fair , [ TO ] oh shrive his Wife , and ease him of his Care . The Holy Friar , that the Goodman might know , Whither his Wife were Honest , yea , or no , Tell him , that he himself should be the Friar , And shrive her in the point he did desire ; Lends him forth with his Habit and his Hood , Instructs him in his Tone , and Holy Mood ; With Accents grave , and Cadences Divine . He glad of this to end his Jealous Dreads , Raid Friar-like , fell often to his Beads ; And all things fit and private as was meet , The Weaver Frier thus his Wife does greet . Sister draw near , let nothing now prevent , Confession is a blessed Instrument ; To cast you down and raise you up again , Grieved for your since to ease you of your pain : Wherefore conceal not from and Holy Friar , And unchaste thought , or and unchaste desire . Grave Sir , reply'd the poor afflicted Woman , I have done ill , and since I needs must summon ; My Thoughts and Deeds , I pardon pray for either , I and a Young man once did lie together , And is that all ? No , if you more inquire , I must confess , I once lay with a Friar , And is this all ? No , yet the more unholy , I and and Old man once committed folly ; And is this all ? Yes all . And does it grieve you ? Indeed it does , Then GOD , and I forgive you ; Depart in peace , and so the silly hearted Grave Friar Weaver , from his Wife departed , With Post and Speed the Friar does unlace , Gets to his Looms , and freets at his disgrace ; His Wife that all this while did swell with laughter , First sets a modest look , then bits it after . When home she comes , at every Shutles throw , She sees her Husbands brains begin to crow ; For as each hand he Shutle did deliver , A Youngman and and Old-man , quoth the Weaver , And to the Web still putting close the Comb , Cry'd Friar , Friar , and so he bit her home . His Wife that sat demurely all the while , And hardly yet could speak a Word but Smile , Broke silence thus , pray Husband what do you mean ? Troth I am a Cuckold Wife , and thou'rt a Quean , And could no less then three serve thy desire , A Young man , and and Old-man , and a Friar ? I'm glade I know it , I'll have a trick shall cool you , Husband there needs none , jealousy does fool you . Were you not Young ? are you not Older grown ? And were you not a Friar , if all were known ? If I did then confess , and you did Shrive me , I lay with no man else you may be believe ; Wherefore good Husband cease now to inquire , You were the Young man , the Old man , and a Friar . If it be so , then let our strife be done , I was a Friar indeed , be thou a Nun. I'll pardon thee , what then canst thou do less ? Then pardon me , since I my fault confess ? FINIS . 