V A Full and True ACCOUNT OF THE Apprehending and taking Six French Prophets , near Hog Lane , in Soho , who pretended to Prophecy that the World should be at and end within this three Weeks , with several other ridiculous Prognostications , with the manner of their Examination , and Binding over , on Monday the 28th of April , by several Justices of the Peace sitting in St. Martin's Vestry ; as also and Account of the Examina - tion and Binding over above 20 French People more , for beating and assaulting the Worshipful Justice Bucknel , for faithfully executing the Duty of his Office . THE French receiving great Encouragement from the merci - full Protection of this Realm , and forgetting their clumber - lie Luggage of Wooden Shoes , through their being in the same Fashion as their betters , a Liberty not tolerated them in their own Land of Bondage ; nor not contented with all this happiness ( I say ) and their Change of Course Diet , from Roots and Pottage to that of good Beef and Pudding , some French Sparks living in and near Hog Lane in Soho , being addicted to strange Enthusiamss , pretend - ed to have the Spirit of Prophecy ( and as we are informed ) had Printed above 40 Pounds worth of Books , which most impudent - lie attempted to Prophesy , That the World should be at and end in three Months time , how great Desolations should quickly rage in England , particularly about London ; That strange Prodigies should be seen in the Air , strange Hurricanes shake the Ocean , with seve - ral other Frantic Predictions , too ridiculous to be here related . However , last Thursday , one Monsieur la Bruise , one of their Fellow-Prophets , having some Words with these Six , he detected their Prophesying Project , raising the Mobb upon they at the end of Hog-Lane , near St. Ann's Church , but through the Multitude of French that is thereabouts , it gave them the Opportunity of ma - king their Escapes , except one , who was seized , and for fear Punishment might light heavier upon him , he discovered where the others might be found , and ac - cordingly , being apprehended , they were on Monday the 28th . of this instant April , carried before several Worshipful Justices of the Peace , sitting in St. Martin's Vestry , where after a long Examination the Matter of Fact being plainly proved against them , they were strictly Bound over , giving in sufficient Securities to answer the same the next ensuing Sessions ; for , according to the Statute of the 1st . of Queen Elizabeth , it says , None shall publish or set forth any Fantastical or false Prophecy , with and intent to raise Sedition , on Pain to forfeit for the first Offence 10 l. and to suffer one whole Years Imprisonment , etc What Profession or Occupation these French Prophets are is uncertain , some saying they are Refugee Ministers ; others , that they are Jesuits disguised under that No - cion , to work their wicked Designs the better ; some one thing , some another . Likewise there were this Morning Bound Over for their impudently beating and as - saulting in a most violent manner the Worshipful Justice Bucknel , threatening him his Life for the faithful Execution of his justicial Office , in the Examination ( as it's said ) last Week of the first of these French Prophets , and without doubt they will be severely handled for so affronting and abusing Justice in the very Face of Authority it self . London , Printed by T. Bland , near Fleet-street , 1707. V A Full and True ACCOUNT OF THE Apprehending and taking Six French Prophets , near Hog Lane , in Soho , who pretended to Prophecy that the World should be at and end within this three Weeks , with several other ridiculous Prognostications , with the manner of their Examination , and Binding over , on Monday the 28th of April , by several Justices of the Peace sitting in St. Martin's Vestry ; as also and Account of the Examina - tion and Binding over above 20 French People more , for beating and assaulting the Worshipful Justice Bucknel , for faithfully executing the Duty of his Office . THE French receiving great Encouragement from the merci - full Protection of this Realm , and forgetting their clumber - lie Luggage of Wooden Shoes , through their being in the same Fashion as their betters , a Liberty not tolerated them in their own Land of Bondage ; nor not contented with all this happiness ( I say ) and their Change of Course Diet , from Roots and Pottage to that of good Beef and Pudding , some French Sparks living in and near Hog Lane in Soho , being addicted to strange Enthusiamss , pretend - ed to have the Spirit of Prophecy ( and as we are informed ) had Printed above 40 Pounds worth of Books , which most impudent - lie attempted to Prophesy , That the World should be at and end in three Months time , how great Desolations should quickly rage in England , particularly about London ; That strange Prodigies should be seen in the Air , strange Hurricanes shake the Ocean , with seve - ral other Frantic Predictions , too ridiculous to be here related . However , last Thursday , one Monsieur la Bruise , one of their Fellow-Prophets , having some Words with these Six , he detected their Prophesying Project , raising the Mobb upon they at the end of Hog-Lane , near St. Ann's Church , but through the Multitude of French that is thereabouts , it gave them the Opportunity of ma - king their Escapes , except one , who was seized , and for fear Punishment might light heavier upon him , he discovered where the others might be found , and ac - cordingly , being apprehended , they were on Monday the 28th . of this instant April , carried before several Worshipful Justices of the Peace , sitting in St. Martin's Vestry , where after a long Examination the Matter of Fact being plainly proved against them , they were strictly Bound over , giving in sufficient Securities to answer the same the next ensuing Sessions ; for , according to the Statute of the 1st . of Queen Elizabeth , it says , None shall publish or set forth any Fantastical or false Prophecy , with and intent to raise Sedition , on Pain to forfeit for the first Offence 10 l. and to suffer one whole Years Imprisonment , etc What Profession or Occupation these French Prophets are is uncertain , some saying they are Refugee Ministers ; others , that they are Jesuits disguised under that No - cion , to work their wicked Designs the better ; some one thing , some another . Likewise there were this Morning Bound Over for their impudently beating and as - saulting in a most violent manner the Worshipful Justice Bucknel , threatening him his Life for the faithful Execution of his justicial Office , in the Examination ( as it's said ) last Week of the first of these French Prophets , and without doubt they will be severely handled for so affronting and abusing Justice in the very Face of Authority it self . London , Printed by T. Bland , near Fleet-street , 1707. 