Innocent Love in Triumph : OR , The Joys of Wedlock made Manifest . Being a most pleasant Delightful New Play Song . No Love like that which Innocence does Crown , On which Hell's Daughter Jealousy , can't frown ; Nor is it like the Smiles that Harlots fell , But Chaste as those who in Elizium dwell : All joys attend it , and all Blessings wait , To make fair Celia's long-wish'd Joys complete . To the Tune of , The Oxfords Bells' . SEe how the charming Celia lies , upon her Bridal Bed , There's no such beauty at Court , She's fit for the Sport , and she looks so lovely white and read : After the first and second Bout , the Bridegroom 'gins to slack his pace , But she cries come to me , and lay your Cheeks close to my face : Tinckle , tinckle , goes the Bed to the Bell , while common time they keep , With a parting Kiss , they end their Bliss , and so retire to sleep . Until the Morning it does dawn , and the sweet Lark does sing , When shades they begin for to fade , That did the world invade , and discloses the pleasures o'th Spring : Then they to walk abroad prepare , and in some Grove lie down , When her white Thighs she does lay bore , While his Clapper does make his great Bell roar , the first and second Peal , While that in their joy , they seem not coy , nor their Passion conceal . For the joy it being past , fresh ones they still do bloom , As if all things did conspire , To yield their desire , with such sweet joys that will ne'r consume : But while the Christial Springs do stream , And Myrtle Shades most pleasant are , which the Nymph's they do raise ; While they embrace each other still , with all the pleasures Cupid can yield , While they pant in Love , the powers above , with Envy view the Field . And wish they so happy were , such Charms that they might know , And Venus herself grows proud , to see how they crowd , to admire her Conquests here below : Where Cupid did shoot equal Darts , and made each feel his mighty Power Which nothing can resist , but his Godhead all must adore : While he makes each proud heart to submit , to his obliging will , While Celia does keep , her Spouse from sleep and makes him his task fulfil . Then to feed the tender Lambs unto the Folds they haste , And the Violet Beds they press , Then the time you'l guess , they neither of them do idly waste : But with soft murmers Charms of Love , each other they do still supply , No joys like harmless Love , which lasting is , and cannot die : But endless joy it does still create , which nothing can exceed , While the streams below , do freely flow , and great contentment breed . Damon and Celia in their Love , seek each for to outvie , To the woe [ r ] ld examples set , None so true e're met , since bright Pheobus did adorn the sky : How blessed then are wedlock joys , where all things do conspire our Bliss , When soft , the fair Bride cries , love Charms with a murmuring kiss : While under the window the Music sounds , she hugs him in her arms , On her back she lies , with turn'd up eyes , and lulls him with her Charms . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in West-smith-field near the Hospital-gate . Innocent Love in Triumph : OR , The Joys of Wedlock made Manifest . Being a most pleasant Delightful New Play Song . No Love like that which Innocence does Crown , On which Hell's Daughter Jealousy , can't frown ; Nor is it like the Smiles that Harlots fell , But Chaste as those who in Elizium dwell : All joys attend it , and all Blessings wait , To make fair Celia's long-wish'd Joys complete . To the Tune of , The Oxfords Bells' . SEe how the charming Celia lies , upon her Bridal Bed , There's no such beauty at Court , She's fit for the Sport , and she looks so lovely white and read : After the first and second Bout , the Bridegroom 'gins to slack his pace , But she cries come to me , and lay your Cheeks close to my face : Tinckle , tinckle , goes the Bed to the Bell , while common time they keep , With a parting Kiss , they end their Bliss , and so retire to sleep . Until the Morning it does dawn , and the sweet Lark does sing , When shades they begin for to fade , That did the world invade , and discloses the pleasures o'th Spring : Then they to walk abroad prepare , and in some Grove lie down , When her white Thighs she does lay bore , While his Clapper does make his great Bell roar , the first and second Peal , While that in their joy , they seem not coy , nor their Passion conceal . For the joy it being past , fresh ones they still do bloom , As if all things did conspire , To yield their desire , with such sweet joys that will ne'r consume : But while the Christial Springs do stream , And Myrtle Shades most pleasant are , which the Nymph's they do raise ; While they embrace each other still , with all the pleasures Cupid can yield , While they pant in Love , the powers above , with Envy view the Field . And wish they so happy were , such Charms that they might know , And Venus herself grows proud , to see how they crowd , to admire her Conquests here below : Where Cupid did shoot equal Darts , and made each feel his mighty Power Which nothing can resist , but his Godhead all must adore : While he makes each proud heart to submit , to his obliging will , While Celia does keep , her Spouse from sleep and makes him his task fulfil . Then to feed the tender Lambs unto the Folds they haste , And the Violet Beds they press , Then the time you'l guess , they neither of them do idly waste : But with soft murmers Charms of Love , each other they do still supply , No joys like harmless Love , which lasting is , and cannot die : But endless joy it does still create , which nothing can exceed , While the streams below , do freely flow , and great contentment breed . Damon and Celia in their Love , seek each for to outvie , To the woe [ r ] ld examples set , None so true e're met , since bright Pheobus did adorn the sky : How blessed then are wedlock joys , where all things do conspire our Bliss , When soft , the fair Bride cries , love Charms with a murmuring kiss : While under the window the Music sounds , she hugs him in her arms , On her back she lies , with turn'd up eyes , and lulls him with her Charms . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in West-smith-field near the Hospital-gate . 