AND Invitation to Lubberland , With and Account of the great Plenty of that Fruitful Country . There is all sorts of Fowl and Fish , with Wine , and store of Brandy ; You have there what your hearts can wish , the Hills are Sugar-Candy . To the Tune of , Billy and Molly . Or , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R.P. THere is a Ship we understand , now riding in the River , 'Tis newly come from Lubberland , the like I think was never : You that a Lazy life do love , i'de have you now go over , They say the Land is not above two thousand Leagues from Dover . The Captain and the Master too , does give us this Relation , And so does all the whole Ships crew , concerning this strange Nation , The streets are pav'd with Pudden-pies nay , Powder'd-Beef and Bacon , They say they scorn to tell you Lies , who thinks it is mistaken . The King of Knaves & Queen of Sluts reigns there in peace and quiet , You need not fear to starve your Guts , there is such store of Die There may you live free from all care , like Hogs set up a fatting , The Garments which the people wear , is Silver , Silk , and Satin . The lofty Buildings of this place , for many years have lasted , With Nutmegs , pepper , Cloves & Mace the Walls are there rough-casted , In curious Hasty-Pudding boyl'd , and most ingenious Carving , Likewise they are with Pancakes Tyl'd sure , here's no fear of Starving . The Captain says in e'ry Town , hight Roasted-Pigs will meet you , They in the streets run up and down , still crying out , Come eat me : Likewise he says at e'ry Feast , the very Fowls and Fish , Nay , from the biggest to the least , comes tumbling to the Dishes . The Rivers run with Claret fine , the Brooks with rich Canary , The Ponds with other sorts of Wine , to make your hearts full merry : Nay , more then this , you may behold the Fountains flows with Brandy , The Rocks are right Refined Gold , the Hills are Sugar-Candy . Rosewater is the Rain they have , which comes in pleasant Showers , All places are adorned brave , with sweet and fragrant Flowers : Hight Custards grow on e'ry Tree , each Ditch affords rich Jellies , Now if you will be rul'd by me go there and fill your Bellies . There's nothing there but Holy-days , with Music out of measure , Who can forbear to speak the praise of such a Land of pleasure ? There may you led a Lazy Life , free from all kind of Labour , And he that is without a Wife , may borrow of his Neighbour . There is no Law nor Lawyers Fees , all Men are free from Fury , For e'ry one does what he please , without a Judge or Jury : The Summer time is warm they say , the Winter's ne'r the Colder , They have no Landlords Rend to pay , each Man is a Freeholder . You that are free to cross the Seas , make no more Disputation , In Lubberland you'l live at Ease , with pleasant Recreation : The Captain waits but for a Gale of prosperous Wind and Weather , And then they soon will hoist up Sail , make haste away together . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . AND Invitation to Lubberland , With and Account of the great Plenty of that Fruitful Country . There is all sorts of Fowl and Fish , with Wine , and store of Brandy ; You have there what your hearts can wish , the Hills are Sugar-Candy . To the Tune of , Billy and Molly . Or , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R.P. THere is a Ship we understand , now riding in the River , 'Tis newly come from Lubberland , the like I think was never : You that a Lazy life do love , i'de have you now go over , They say the Land is not above two thousand Leagues from Dover . The Captain and the Master too , does give us this Relation , And so does all the whole Ships crew , concerning this strange Nation , The streets are pav'd with Pudden-pies nay , Powder'd-Beef and Bacon , They say they scorn to tell you Lies , who thinks it is mistaken . The King of Knaves & Queen of Sluts reigns there in peace and quiet , You need not fear to starve your Guts , there is such store of Die There may you live free from all care , like Hogs set up a fatting , The Garments which the people wear , is Silver , Silk , and Satin . The lofty Buildings of this place , for many years have lasted , With Nutmegs , pepper , Cloves & Mace the Walls are there rough-casted , In curious Hasty-Pudding boyl'd , and most ingenious Carving , Likewise they are with Pancakes Tyl'd sure , here's no fear of Starving . The Captain says in e'ry Town , hight Roasted-Pigs will meet you , They in the streets run up and down , still crying out , Come eat me : Likewise he says at e'ry Feast , the very Fowls and Fish , Nay , from the biggest to the least , comes tumbling to the Dishes . The Rivers run with Claret fine , the Brooks with rich Canary , The Ponds with other sorts of Wine , to make your hearts full merry : Nay , more then this , you may behold the Fountains flows with Brandy , The Rocks are right Refined Gold , the Hills are Sugar-Candy . Rosewater is the Rain they have , which comes in pleasant Showers , All places are adorned brave , with sweet and fragrant Flowers : Hight Custards grow on e'ry Tree , each Ditch affords rich Jellies , Now if you will be rul'd by me go there and fill your Bellies . There's nothing there but Holy-days , with Music out of measure , Who can forbear to speak the praise of such a Land of pleasure ? There may you led a Lazy Life , free from all kind of Labour , And he that is without a Wife , may borrow of his Neighbour . There is no Law nor Lawyers Fees , all Men are free from Fury , For e'ry one does what he please , without a Judge or Jury : The Summer time is warm they say , the Winter's ne'r the Colder , They have no Landlords Rend to pay , each Man is a Freeholder . You that are free to cross the Seas , make no more Disputation , In Lubberland you'l live at Ease , with pleasant Recreation : The Captain waits but for a Gale of prosperous Wind and Weather , And then they soon will hoist up Sail , make haste away together . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 