The Courageous Plowman , or , The Citizens Misfortune . Being and encouragement to all Plowmen , to exercise themselves in their Youth with a Cudgel , that they may the better know how to handle a sharper weapon , if need require . I shall not stand the Subject to repeat , Because the Verses do it so complete , To hear how meekly the Citizens came off , I think it cannot choose but make you laugh ; The Parties here I must forbear to name , For fear the Author chance to bear the blame . To the Tune of , Dick and Nan , Or , The Tyrant . THere was a brave Citizen walked forth of late , From London to th' Country to choose him a mate ; His Eloquent Compliments and his success To you in these Verses I'll plainly express . He then was attired handsome and neat , In a Suit and a Cloak and a Beaver complete ; In his pockets he had twenty pieces of Gold , Which he had provided to make himself bold . He then took his journey to Nottingham Town , And there he alighted and drank at the Crown ; Whereas a young Damosel appeared in his sighed , Which caused the Youngman to tarry all night . Citizen . With Eloquent speeches he thus did begin ; Fair Lady could I but your favour now win : If you grant me your love that's the thing I desire , By reason my heart with love is set on fire . Maid . 'Tis strange quoth the Maiden love should be so hight ; Such love I'm persuaded will soon be forgotten ; But I wish that the heat thereof might be asswag'd , For I to another am deeply ingag'd . Citizen . There's no man on earth that shall sever us twain ; If thou wilt but yield for to love me again . And I for thy sake now will venture my life By reason I purpose to make thee my wife . Plowman . Then came in a Plowman and herd him say so : 'Tis well spoken ( quoth he ) but I know what I know ; To tell you the truth Sir , the Girl is mine , And if thou canst win her then she shall be thine . Let us take two weapons and go into the field , And never give out until , one of us yield ; It shall not be spoken upon and Alebench , That a Plowman was fearful to fight for a Wench . Citizen . Art thou so audacious to dare me to fight ? I'll make thee and example before it be nigh Thou art but a Bumpkin bred at the Ploughtail , And ne'r used no weapon but only thy Flail . Therefore be thou trudging and stand not to prate , Lest I with this Flagon , knock thee on the pate ; Except thou art willing to stand to thy words , Then our controversy we'll end with our Swords . All things then provided this Combat began , They both try'd their valours which was the best man ; They fought half and hour as people do say , Yet none knew which would be beaten that day . The Plowman most bravely himself did behave , By tracing the ground , that himself he did save ; At last he with fury laid on such a stroke , With the strength of his arm , that his weapon it broke . He then clos'd within him and gave him the fallen ; O now quoth the Plowman , you shall pay for all : I'll make you acknowledge before you depart , That a Plowman will fight ere he'll loose his Sweetheart . O hold thy hand Plowman , peccavi I cry , Oh let me not here in a strange Country die ; Take my gold , cloak , and rapier and all that I have , The Damosel's thy own if my life thou wilt save . The Plowman obtained the conquest that day , And twenty Gold pieces he carried away : He furnished his pockets , his back and his side , and gained him a Damosel to make him a Bride . The Cockney with sorrow lamented his loss , And home he returned but by weeping Cross : His mother these Verses at leisure may read , And give him good counsel to take better heed . Concluding my Ditty I thus make and end , I with some honest Plowman would now stand my friend , And give me some liquour for I am very dry , If I tell you the truth then I tell no lie . Whoop Cockney , where's your twenty Pound ? Finis . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . The Courageous Plowman , or , The Citizens Misfortune . Being and encouragement to all Plowmen , to exercise themselves in their Youth with a Cudgel , that they may the better know how to handle a sharper weapon , if need require . I shall not stand the Subject to repeat , Because the Verses do it so complete , To hear how meekly the Citizens came off , I think it cannot choose but make you laugh ; The Parties here I must forbear to name , For fear the Author chance to bear the blame . To the Tune of , Dick and Nan , Or , The Tyrant . THere was a brave Citizen walked forth of late , From London to th' Country to choose him a mate ; His Eloquent Compliments and his success To you in these Verses I'll plainly express . He then was attired handsome and neat , In a Suit and a Cloak and a Beaver complete ; In his pockets he had twenty pieces of Gold , Which he had provided to make himself bold . He then took his journey to Nottingham Town , And there he alighted and drank at the Crown ; Whereas a young Damosel appeared in his sighed , Which caused the Youngman to tarry all night . Citizen . With Eloquent speeches he thus did begin ; Fair Lady could I but your favour now win : If you grant me your love that's the thing I desire , By reason my heart with love is set on fire . Maid . 'Tis strange quoth the Maiden love should be so hight ; Such love I'm persuaded will soon be forgotten ; But I wish that the heat thereof might be asswag'd , For I to another am deeply ingag'd . Citizen . There's no man on earth that shall sever us twain ; If thou wilt but yield for to love me again . And I for thy sake now will venture my life By reason I purpose to make thee my wife . Plowman . Then came in a Plowman and herd him say so : 'Tis well spoken ( quoth he ) but I know what I know ; To tell you the truth Sir , the Girl is mine , And if thou canst win her then she shall be thine . Let us take two weapons and go into the field , And never give out until , one of us yield ; It shall not be spoken upon and Alebench , That a Plowman was fearful to fight for a Wench . Citizen . Art thou so audacious to dare me to fight ? I'll make thee and example before it be nigh Thou art but a Bumpkin bred at the Ploughtail , And ne'r used no weapon but only thy Flail . Therefore be thou trudging and stand not to prate , Lest I with this Flagon , knock thee on the pate ; Except thou art willing to stand to thy words , Then our controversy we'll end with our Swords . All things then provided this Combat began , They both try'd their valours which was the best man ; They fought half and hour as people do say , Yet none knew which would be beaten that day . The Plowman most bravely himself did behave , By tracing the ground , that himself he did save ; At last he with fury laid on such a stroke , With the strength of his arm , that his weapon it broke . He then clos'd within him and gave him the fallen ; O now quoth the Plowman , you shall pay for all : I'll make you acknowledge before you depart , That a Plowman will fight ere he'll loose his Sweetheart . O hold thy hand Plowman , peccavi I cry , Oh let me not here in a strange Country die ; Take my gold , cloak , and rapier and all that I have , The Damosel's thy own if my life thou wilt save . The Plowman obtained the conquest that day , And twenty Gold pieces he carried away : He furnished his pockets , his back and his side , and gained him a Damosel to make him a Bride . The Cockney with sorrow lamented his loss , And home he returned but by weeping Cross : His mother these Verses at leisure may read , And give him good counsel to take better heed . Concluding my Ditty I thus make and end , I with some honest Plowman would now stand my friend , And give me some liquour for I am very dry , If I tell you the truth then I tell no lie . Whoop Cockney , where's your twenty Pound ? Finis . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 