A Pastoral Dialogue BETWEEN ALEXIS and STREPHON , Written by the Right Honourable , The Late Earl of Rochester . At the BATH , 1674. I. Alex. THere sighs not on the Plain So lost a Swain as I ; Scorcht't up with Love , frozen with Disdain . Of killing Sweetness I complain . Streph . If 'tis Corinna , die . II Since first my dazzled Eyes were thrown On that bewitching Face , Like ruin'd Birds , rob'd of their Young , Lamenting , frighted , and alone , I fly from place to place . III . Fram'd by some Cruel Powers above , So nice she is , and fair ; None from undoing can remove , Since all , who are not Blind , must Love ; Who are not vain , Despair . IV. Alex. The Gods no sooner give a Grace , But found of their own Art , Severely jealous , ever place To guard the Glories of a Face , A Dragon in the Heart . V. Proud and ill-natur'd Powers they are , Who peevish to Mankind , For their own Honour's sake , with Care , Make a sweet From divinely Fair , And adds a Cruel Mind . VI . Streph . Since she's insensible of Love , By Honour taught to hate , If we , forc'd by Decrees above , Must sensible to Beauty prove , How Tyrannous is Fate ? VII . Alex. I to the Nymph have never nam'd The Cause of all my pain . Streph . Such Bashfulness may well be blam'd ; For since to serve we're not asham'd , Why should she blush to Reign ? VIII . Alex. But if her haughty Heart despise My humble proffer'd One , The just Compassion she denies , I may obtain from other's Eyes ; Hers are not Fair alone . IX . Devouring Flames require new Food ; My Heart's consum'd almos New Fires must kindle in her Blood , Or Mine go out , and that's as good . Streph . Would'st live , when Love is lost ? X. Be dead before thy Passion die ; For if thou should'st survive , What Anguish would the Heart surprise , To see her Flames begin to rise , And Thine no more Alive . XI . Alex. Rather what Pleasure shou'd I meet In my Triumphant scorn , To see my Tyrant at my Feet ; Whil'st taught by her , unmov'd I fit A Tyrant in my Turn . XII . Streph . Ungentle Shepherd , cease for shame ; Which way can you pretend To merit so Divine a Flame , Who to dull Life makes a mean Claim , When Love is at and End ? XIII . As Trees are by their Bark embrac'd , Love to my Soul does cling ; When torn by th' Herd's greedy Taste , The injur'd Plants feel they're defac't , They wither in the Spring . XIV . My rifled Love would soon retire , Dissolving into Air , Shou'd I that Nymph cease to admire , Blessed in whose Arms I will expire , Or at her Feet despair . LONDON , Printed for Benj. Billingsley , at the Printing-Press , in Cornhil , 1683. A Pastoral Dialogue BETWEEN ALEXIS and STREPHON , Written by the Right Honourable , The Late Earl of Rochester . At the BATH , 1674. I. Alex. THere sighs not on the Plain So lost a Swain as I ; Scorcht't up with Love , frozen with Disdain . Of killing Sweetness I complain . Streph . If 'tis Corinna , die . II Since first my dazzled Eyes were thrown On that bewitching Face , Like ruin'd Birds , rob'd of their Young , Lamenting , frighted , and alone , I fly from place to place . III . Fram'd by some Cruel Powers above , So nice she is , and fair ; None from undoing can remove , Since all , who are not Blind , must Love ; Who are not vain , Despair . IV. Alex. The Gods no sooner give a Grace , But found of their own Art , Severely jealous , ever place To guard the Glories of a Face , A Dragon in the Heart . V. Proud and ill-natur'd Powers they are , Who peevish to Mankind , For their own Honour's sake , with Care , Make a sweet From divinely Fair , And adds a Cruel Mind . VI . Streph . Since she's insensible of Love , By Honour taught to hate , If we , forc'd by Decrees above , Must sensible to Beauty prove , How Tyrannous is Fate ? VII . Alex. I to the Nymph have never nam'd The Cause of all my pain . Streph . Such Bashfulness may well be blam'd ; For since to serve we're not asham'd , Why should she blush to Reign ? VIII . Alex. But if her haughty Heart despise My humble proffer'd One , The just Compassion she denies , I may obtain from other's Eyes ; Hers are not Fair alone . IX . Devouring Flames require new Food ; My Heart's consum'd almos New Fires must kindle in her Blood , Or Mine go out , and that's as good . Streph . Would'st live , when Love is lost ? X. Be dead before thy Passion die ; For if thou should'st survive , What Anguish would the Heart surprise , To see her Flames begin to rise , And Thine no more Alive . XI . Alex. Rather what Pleasure shou'd I meet In my Triumphant scorn , To see my Tyrant at my Feet ; Whil'st taught by her , unmov'd I fit A Tyrant in my Turn . XII . Streph . Ungentle Shepherd , cease for shame ; Which way can you pretend To merit so Divine a Flame , Who to dull Life makes a mean Claim , When Love is at and End ? XIII . As Trees are by their Bark embrac'd , Love to my Soul does cling ; When torn by th' Herd's greedy Taste , The injur'd Plants feel they're defac't , They wither in the Spring . XIV . My rifled Love would soon retire , Dissolving into Air , Shou'd I that Nymph cease to admire , Blessed in whose Arms I will expire , Or at her Feet despair . LONDON , Printed for Benj. Billingsley , at the Printing-Press , in Cornhil , 1683. 