BEAUTY's Cruelty : OR , The Passionate LOVER . And Excellent New Play-Song , much in Request . To a New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. THere is one black and sul -- len Hour , which Fate decrees our Lives should know , Else we should slight Almighty Power , wrap'd with the Joys we find below : [ ' ] This past , dear Cynthia , now let Frowns be gone , A long , long penance I have done , a long , long Penance I have done , For Crimes to me alas ! unknown ; for Crimes to me alas ! unknown . In each soft hour of silent Night , your Image in my Dream appears , I grasp the Soul of my Delight , slumber in Joy , but wak'd in Tears : Ah! faithless charming Saint , what will you do Let me not think I am by you , let me not think I am by you , Lov'd less , lov'd less , for being true , lov'd less , lov'd less for being true . Before dear Cynthia I beheld thy charming Face , my heart was free , From Love , and knew not how to yield to any Beauty but to thee : Bright as the Sun that in the East does rise , Did force me by a sweet Surprise , did force me by a sweet surprise , To yield the Conquest to your Eyes , to yield the Conquest to your Eyes . One pleasing Smile , my Charming Fair , my Lovesick Heart with Joy to fill ; Thy piercing Frowns breeds my Despair , o ! let those Eyes that wound , not kill ; Since by a Smile my heart you did inspire , And credit -- a -- ted in it a Fire , and credit -- a -- ted , etc That never , never can Expire , that never , etc No longer then thus Tyrannise , but all your Cruelty give o'er : And not a heart so true despise , that will forever you adore ; Ah! Charming Nymph , grant love for love again , Do not by Frowns create my Pain ; do not by Frowns , etc Nor torture me by your Disdain , nor Torture , etc Who is my Crime , dear Cinthia , that my Punishments is so severe ? Te [ l ] l me that I may Expiate my Crime , by a Repenting Tear ; Forbear by Cruelty to Torture me , I offer you a heart that's free , I offer you , etc From false Deceit and Flattery , from false , etc Oh! why , you Powers , did frame her Heart so hard , and face so fair ? Her Face did first my heart inflame , her Cruelty breeds my Despair : Make her more kind , you Powers , then I crave , That she may Cure the Wounds she gave , that she may Cure the Wounds she gave , Or send me to my wished for Grave , or send me to my wished for Grave . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J , Back , J. Blare . BEAUTY's Cruelty : OR , The Passionate LOVER . And Excellent New Play-Song , much in Request . To a New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. THere is one black and sul -- len Hour , which Fate decrees our Lives should know , Else we should slight Almighty Power , wrap'd with the Joys we find below : [ ' ] This past , dear Cynthia , now let Frowns be gone , A long , long penance I have done , a long , long Penance I have done , For Crimes to me alas ! unknown ; for Crimes to me alas ! unknown . In each soft hour of silent Night , your Image in my Dream appears , I grasp the Soul of my Delight , slumber in Joy , but wak'd in Tears : Ah! faithless charming Saint , what will you do Let me not think I am by you , let me not think I am by you , Lov'd less , lov'd less , for being true , lov'd less , lov'd less for being true . Before dear Cynthia I beheld thy charming Face , my heart was free , From Love , and knew not how to yield to any Beauty but to thee : Bright as the Sun that in the East does rise , Did force me by a sweet Surprise , did force me by a sweet surprise , To yield the Conquest to your Eyes , to yield the Conquest to your Eyes . One pleasing Smile , my Charming Fair , my Lovesick Heart with Joy to fill ; Thy piercing Frowns breeds my Despair , o ! let those Eyes that wound , not kill ; Since by a Smile my heart you did inspire , And credit -- a -- ted in it a Fire , and credit -- a -- ted , etc That never , never can Expire , that never , etc No longer then thus Tyrannise , but all your Cruelty give o'er : And not a heart so true despise , that will forever you adore ; Ah! Charming Nymph , grant love for love again , Do not by Frowns create my Pain ; do not by Frowns , etc Nor torture me by your Disdain , nor Torture , etc Who is my Crime , dear Cinthia , that my Punishments is so severe ? Te [ l ] l me that I may Expiate my Crime , by a Repenting Tear ; Forbear by Cruelty to Torture me , I offer you a heart that's free , I offer you , etc From false Deceit and Flattery , from false , etc Oh! why , you Powers , did frame her Heart so hard , and face so fair ? Her Face did first my heart inflame , her Cruelty breeds my Despair : Make her more kind , you Powers , then I crave , That she may Cure the Wounds she gave , that she may Cure the Wounds she gave , Or send me to my wished for Grave , or send me to my wished for Grave . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J , Back , J. Blare . 