Truth Triumphant , Over Perjury Rampant . On the Trial of the Salamanca Doctor at the Kings-Bench-Bar , May the 8th . and 9th . 1685. To the Tune of , Sir Eglemore . 1 THere was a Doctor of ancient Fame , With a Sa-la-manca la , He never was Christened , yet carried the name Of a Sa-la-manca-la . A Popish Holder-forth was he , A Doctor he was , yet ne'r took a Degree , At Sa-la manca , Sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 2 This Doctor he was a Knight of the Post , With a Sa-la-manca la , And among the Evidence rull'd the Roast , With a Sa-la-manca la . He nothing but the Truth did swear , But the Devil a word of Truth was there , With a Sa-la-manca , sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 3 A Turncoat Orthodox Divine , With a Sa-la-manca la . And cou'd among the Brothers whine ; With a Sa-la-manca la . A dangerous Plot he did disclose Against the King , yet stuck to his Foes , With a Sa-la-manca , sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 4 His Nose was made of shining Brass , With a Sa-la-manca la , With a Mouth in the middle of his Face , With a Sa-la-manca la . when all the Pack was on the scent , This Bloodhound he all the Beagles outwent , With a Sa-la-manca sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 5 The Doctor a step had so damnable wide , With a Sa-la-manca la , 'Twixt London and Paris he could easily stride , With a Sa-la-manca la . One foot in St. Clements at the White-Horse , And 'tother astride at St. Omers-Cross , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 6 He had a delicate Eagles Eye , Vuhith a Sa-la-manca la , 500 miles distant his Prey he could spy , With a Sa-la-manca la , He could see old Ireland in the Strand , And little DONE John in the Austrian Band , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 7 Like Jupiter he had and Ear , With a Sa-la-manca la , At once all Mortals he could hear , With a Sa-la-manca la . What's said in England , Spain , or France , Tho' he never herd Truth , but when he herd Prance , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 8 But now alas ! by the Leg he is ty'd , With a Sa-la-manca la , Which has quite spoil'd his striding so wide , With a Sa-la-manca la . In Links and Cains our Jove they bind , And the Doctor to one place is confin'd , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 9 Thus clog'd with his Garters , and ready at call With a Salamanca la The Doctor was summon'd to Westminster-Hall ; With a Sa-la manca la , With Joyful shouts , and Tuneful strains , The Clog of his Conscience and the rattling Chains , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 10 Of Witnesses a Noble Train , With a Sa-la-manca la , Came from St. Omers , France and Spain , With a Sa-la-manca la . Both Judge and Prelate thither came , To say what they cou'd in the Doctor's Fame , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 11 And now by what it did appear With a Sa-lamanca la , And all the Evidence summon'd there , With a Sa-la-manca la . The Ass for all his long loud Ear , Not one true word of himself could hear , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 12 The first he herd was a fatal Note , With a Sa-la-manca la , You are Guilty Sir Rogue of a damnable Plot , With a Sa-la-manca la . But to hear himself Perjur'd , & damn'd withal , He had better have had no Ears at all ; With a Sa-la-manca , etc 13 Then Hanging had been his Destiny , With a Sa-la-manca la , And never disgrac'd the Pillory , With a Sa-la-manca la . But now he's bound in Garter and Cuff To do Penance within a Wooden-Ruff , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 14 Not all his Spells can shun this Fate Of a Sa-la-manca la , Although the Brothers Pawn'd their Plate , With a Sa-la-manca la . Although he Poyson'd the Dog , with hope Of escaping with 35 Fathams of Rope , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 15 By many lengths here he outrun the Plot , With a Sa-la-manca la , When but one was predestin'd to his Lot , With a Sa-la manca la . And may such Fate all Whigs attend , Who with Loyal pretence prove Rogues in the ead , With a Sa-la-manca , sa la , Sa-la-manca la . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , 1685. Truth Triumphant , Over Perjury Rampant . On the Trial of the Salamanca Doctor at the Kings-Bench-Bar , May the 8th . and 9th . 1685. To the Tune of , Sir Eglemore . 1 THere was a Doctor of ancient Fame , With a Sa-la-manca la , He never was Christened , yet carried the name Of a Sa-la-manca-la . A Popish Holder-forth was he , A Doctor he was , yet ne'r took a Degree , At Sa-la manca , Sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 2 This Doctor he was a Knight of the Post , With a Sa-la-manca la , And among the Evidence rull'd the Roast , With a Sa-la-manca la . He nothing but the Truth did swear , But the Devil a word of Truth was there , With a Sa-la-manca , sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 3 A Turncoat Orthodox Divine , With a Sa-la-manca la . And cou'd among the Brothers whine ; With a Sa-la-manca la . A dangerous Plot he did disclose Against the King , yet stuck to his Foes , With a Sa-la-manca , sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 4 His Nose was made of shining Brass , With a Sa-la-manca la , With a Mouth in the middle of his Face , With a Sa-la-manca la . when all the Pack was on the scent , This Bloodhound he all the Beagles outwent , With a Sa-la-manca sa-la , Sa-la-manca la . 5 The Doctor a step had so damnable wide , With a Sa-la-manca la , 'Twixt London and Paris he could easily stride , With a Sa-la-manca la . One foot in St. Clements at the White-Horse , And 'tother astride at St. Omers-Cross , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 6 He had a delicate Eagles Eye , Vuhith a Sa-la-manca la , 500 miles distant his Prey he could spy , With a Sa-la-manca la , He could see old Ireland in the Strand , And little DONE John in the Austrian Band , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 7 Like Jupiter he had and Ear , With a Sa-la-manca la , At once all Mortals he could hear , With a Sa-la-manca la . What's said in England , Spain , or France , Tho' he never herd Truth , but when he herd Prance , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 8 But now alas ! by the Leg he is ty'd , With a Sa-la-manca la , Which has quite spoil'd his striding so wide , With a Sa-la-manca la . In Links and Cains our Jove they bind , And the Doctor to one place is confin'd , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 9 Thus clog'd with his Garters , and ready at call With a Salamanca la The Doctor was summon'd to Westminster-Hall ; With a Sa-la manca la , With Joyful shouts , and Tuneful strains , The Clog of his Conscience and the rattling Chains , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 10 Of Witnesses a Noble Train , With a Sa-la-manca la , Came from St. Omers , France and Spain , With a Sa-la-manca la . Both Judge and Prelate thither came , To say what they cou'd in the Doctor's Fame , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 11 And now by what it did appear With a Sa-lamanca la , And all the Evidence summon'd there , With a Sa-la-manca la . The Ass for all his long loud Ear , Not one true word of himself could hear , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 12 The first he herd was a fatal Note , With a Sa-la-manca la , You are Guilty Sir Rogue of a damnable Plot , With a Sa-la-manca la . But to hear himself Perjur'd , & damn'd withal , He had better have had no Ears at all ; With a Sa-la-manca , etc 13 Then Hanging had been his Destiny , With a Sa-la-manca la , And never disgrac'd the Pillory , With a Sa-la-manca la . But now he's bound in Garter and Cuff To do Penance within a Wooden-Ruff , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 14 Not all his Spells can shun this Fate Of a Sa-la-manca la , Although the Brothers Pawn'd their Plate , With a Sa-la-manca la . Although he Poyson'd the Dog , with hope Of escaping with 35 Fathams of Rope , With a Sa-la-manca , etc 15 By many lengths here he outrun the Plot , With a Sa-la-manca la , When but one was predestin'd to his Lot , With a Sa-la manca la . And may such Fate all Whigs attend , Who with Loyal pretence prove Rogues in the ead , With a Sa-la-manca , sa la , Sa-la-manca la . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , 1685. 