JOAN's Ale is New ; OR : A new merry Medley , showing the power , the strength , the operation , and the ver - tue that remains in good Ale , which is accounted the Mother-drink of England . All you that do this merry Ditty view , Taste of Joan's Ale , for it is strong and new . To a pleasant New Northern Tune . THere was a jovial Tinker , Which was a good Ale-drinker , He never was a shrinker , believe me this is true , And he came from the wild of Kent . When all his money was gone and spent Which made him like a Jack-a-Lent , And Jones Ale is new , And Jones Ale is new Boys , And Jones Ale is new , The Tinker he did settle , Most like a man of mettle , And vow'd to pawn his Kettle , now mark what did ensue . His Neibors they flocked in apace . To see Tom Tinkers comely face , Where they drank soundly for a space , While Jones Ale , etc The Cobbler and the Broomman , Come next in the room man , And said they would drink for boon man , let each one take his due : But when good liquour they found , They cast their caps upon the ground , And to the Tinker he drank round : While Jones Ale , etc The Rag man he being weary , With the bundle he did carry , He swore he would be merry , and spend a shilling or two : And he told his Hostis to her face , The Chimney-corner was his place , And he began drink apace , And Jones Ale , etc The Pedlar he drew nigher , For it was his desire , To throw the Rags t'th fire , and burn the bundle blew , So while they drank whole flashes , And threw about the Glasses , The rags were burned to ashes , And Jones Ale , etc The second part , to the same Tune . ANd then came in a Hatter , To see what was the matter , He scorned to drink cold water , among that Jovial crew , And like a man of courage stout , He took the quart-pot by the snout , And never left till all was out , Oh Jones Ale , etc The Taylor being nimble , With Bodkin , Shears , and Thimble , He did no whit dissemble , I think his name was True , He said that he was like to choke , And call'd so fast for lap and smoke , Until he had pawn'd his Vinegar Cloak For Jones Ale , etc Then came a pitiful Porter , Which often did resort there , Quoth he i'le show some sport here , among'st this jovial crew , The Porter he had very bad luck , Before that it was ten a clock , The fool god drunk and lost his frock , For Jones , etc The bony brave Shoemaker . A brave Tobacoo-taker , He scorned to be a Quaker , I think his name was Hugh , He called for liquour in so fast , Till he forgotten his Awl and Last . And up the reckoning he did cast , While Jones , etc And then came in the Weaver , You never saw a braver , With a Silk man and a Glover , Tom Tinker for to view , And so to welcome him to Town , They every man spent half a crown , And so the drink went merrily down , For Jones , etc Then came a drunken Dutchman , And he would have a touch man , But he soon took too much man , which made them after rue ; He drank so long as I suppose , Till greaste drops fell from his nose , And like a beast befoul'd his hose , While Jones , etc A Welshman he came next sir , With joy and sorrow mixed sir , Who being partly vexed sir , he out his dagger drew , Cuts-plutter-a-nails , quoth Taffie than , A Welshman is a Gentleman , Come Hostis fill's the other Can , For Jones , etc Thus like to men of courage stout , Courageously they drank about , Till such time all the ale was out , as I may say to you . And when the business was done , They every man departed home , And promised Jone again to come , when she had brew'd anew . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger JOAN's Ale is New ; OR : A new merry Medley , showing the power , the strength , the operation , and the ver - tue that remains in good Ale , which is accounted the Mother-drink of England . All you that do this merry Ditty view , Taste of Joan's Ale , for it is strong and new . To a pleasant New Northern Tune . THere was a jovial Tinker , Which was a good Ale-drinker , He never was a shrinker , believe me this is true , And he came from the wild of Kent . When all his money was gone and spent Which made him like a Jack-a-Lent , And Jones Ale is new , And Jones Ale is new Boys , And Jones Ale is new , The Tinker he did settle , Most like a man of mettle , And vow'd to pawn his Kettle , now mark what did ensue . His Neibors they flocked in apace . To see Tom Tinkers comely face , Where they drank soundly for a space , While Jones Ale , etc The Cobbler and the Broomman , Come next in the room man , And said they would drink for boon man , let each one take his due : But when good liquour they found , They cast their caps upon the ground , And to the Tinker he drank round : While Jones Ale , etc The Rag man he being weary , With the bundle he did carry , He swore he would be merry , and spend a shilling or two : And he told his Hostis to her face , The Chimney-corner was his place , And he began drink apace , And Jones Ale , etc The Pedlar he drew nigher , For it was his desire , To throw the Rags t'th fire , and burn the bundle blew , So while they drank whole flashes , And threw about the Glasses , The rags were burned to ashes , And Jones Ale , etc The second part , to the same Tune . ANd then came in a Hatter , To see what was the matter , He scorned to drink cold water , among that Jovial crew , And like a man of courage stout , He took the quart-pot by the snout , And never left till all was out , Oh Jones Ale , etc The Taylor being nimble , With Bodkin , Shears , and Thimble , He did no whit dissemble , I think his name was True , He said that he was like to choke , And call'd so fast for lap and smoke , Until he had pawn'd his Vinegar Cloak For Jones Ale , etc Then came a pitiful Porter , Which often did resort there , Quoth he i'le show some sport here , among'st this jovial crew , The Porter he had very bad luck , Before that it was ten a clock , The fool god drunk and lost his frock , For Jones , etc The bony brave Shoemaker . A brave Tobacoo-taker , He scorned to be a Quaker , I think his name was Hugh , He called for liquour in so fast , Till he forgotten his Awl and Last . And up the reckoning he did cast , While Jones , etc And then came in the Weaver , You never saw a braver , With a Silk man and a Glover , Tom Tinker for to view , And so to welcome him to Town , They every man spent half a crown , And so the drink went merrily down , For Jones , etc Then came a drunken Dutchman , And he would have a touch man , But he soon took too much man , which made them after rue ; He drank so long as I suppose , Till greaste drops fell from his nose , And like a beast befoul'd his hose , While Jones , etc A Welshman he came next sir , With joy and sorrow mixed sir , Who being partly vexed sir , he out his dagger drew , Cuts-plutter-a-nails , quoth Taffie than , A Welshman is a Gentleman , Come Hostis fill's the other Can , For Jones , etc Thus like to men of courage stout , Courageously they drank about , Till such time all the ale was out , as I may say to you . And when the business was done , They every man departed home , And promised Jone again to come , when she had brew'd anew . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger 