A Choice New SONG , call'd , She-Land , and Robinocracy . To all Sorts of Tunes . 1. SHe-Land , the Praise of all the Earth Surrounded by the Waves , Has Thriving Land upon the East , On South the Land of Slaves . 2. The West and North has Shelves and Rocks , And Islands near the Shore , The People Rich in Trading Stocks Of old , but now grown poor . 3. This Country once had Famous Laws , And Liberty did Boast ; But now o'er-run by Cackling Daws , Their Property is lost . 4. Their Government of yore well pois'd , Secur'd the Folks from Thrall ; But ROBINOCRACY , at last , Spoil'd and confounded all . 5. 'Tis fram'd of Knavish cunning Tricks , Hypocrisy and Fraud ; The State loves Gaulish Politics , The Church the Schemes of Laud. 6. Some call it boundless Monarchy , But Gunarchy's the Name : Or rather Lawless Anarchy , Of Governments the Shame . 7. Sometime a King , sometime a Queen , A Servingman , or Maid ; A Pimp , or Bawd do rule this Land Just as the Plot is laid . 8. For ROBINOCRACY consists In getting Pow'r and Gold , By any Method that one lists , Which for the time will hold . 9. One Day a Saint , the t'other Fiend Now true , and then a Knave ; Boist'rous sometime , at others kind , But all the Game to save . 10. Chameleon like it takes each Hue , Puts on all Shapes and Sizes , Brings ev'ry Month a Scheme that's new , But Constancy despises . 11. Religion a mere Stalking-Horse , Is in this Region made ; 'Tis High , or Low , or None , that's worse , Just as the Priests are paid . 12. Those Venal Souls puff'd up with Pride Do claim a Pow'r Divine ; The Laymens Backs to mount and ride , At which none must repine . 13. The Firsts and Tenths are not enough The Clergy's Paunch to fill , Two Thirds at lest their Bags must stuff , Or else they take it ill . 14. The Church in Danger is , they cry , When Priests are not in Pow'r , The Laymens Souls in Hell to fry , And Substance to devour . 15. The Monarchy's undone , they say , And Common-Wealth takes place , Unless the High-Priests bear the Sway , And guide the Royal Raze . 16. Thus Bob did teach the Fools to prate Till he had gain'd his Ends , Which was the Chief Posts of the State , And then he bilk'd his Friends . 17. They clamour'd loud he was Unjust , Swore he betray'd their Cause ; And as he serv'd the Blackbirds first , So now he serv'd the Daws . 18. They lov'd to built on Steeples high , And 'bove the Clouds to soar , Control'd by none but Y --- k's Magpy , Yet still they're plagu'd with more . 19. The Eaglet of a Roman Breed They hop'd for long ago , But a She-Vulture in his stead , Continues all their Wo. 20. By ROBINOCRACY , cry they , We're ruin'd and undone ; The Blackbirds did the Dad betray , And Bob will cheat the Son. 21. He hugs the Sister O ------ rp , And fumbles her abed ; Curse on the Lecher's Gunarchy , And on his S. S --- a Trade . 22. We lash'd and damn'd the Rebel W --- gs Until we pull'd 'em down , And now we're chous'd by TO --- y Prigs , Our Cause who dare not own . 23. Or rather would the Saddle keep Since they are god astride , We'll call the Chevalier o'er the Deep , And force the Rogues to hide . 24. Ox --- worser alone shall not bear Rule , And act the Part of Noll ; We'll bait and hunt the Trait'rous Tool To M ------ r's great Hold . 25. The W --- gs mean time do laugh and sneer , As they those Feuds discover , And hope the Clouds at last will clear , In Favour of H ------ ver . 26. Then Jacks and Tories both shall run To Room , or else St. Germain , And in She-Land we shan't have one Of that base sort of Vermin . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . A Choice New SONG , call'd , She-Land , and Robinocracy . To all Sorts of Tunes . 1. SHe-Land , the Praise of all the Earth Surrounded by the Waves , Has Thriving Land upon the East , On South the Land of Slaves . 2. The West and North has Shelves and Rocks , And Islands near the Shore , The People Rich in Trading Stocks Of old , but now grown poor . 3. This Country once had Famous Laws , And Liberty did Boast ; But now o'er-run by Cackling Daws , Their Property is lost . 4. Their Government of yore well pois'd , Secur'd the Folks from Thrall ; But ROBINOCRACY , at last , Spoil'd and confounded all . 5. 'Tis fram'd of Knavish cunning Tricks , Hypocrisy and Fraud ; The State loves Gaulish Politics , The Church the Schemes of Laud. 6. Some call it boundless Monarchy , But Gunarchy's the Name : Or rather Lawless Anarchy , Of Governments the Shame . 7. Sometime a King , sometime a Queen , A Servingman , or Maid ; A Pimp , or Bawd do rule this Land Just as the Plot is laid . 8. For ROBINOCRACY consists In getting Pow'r and Gold , By any Method that one lists , Which for the time will hold . 9. One Day a Saint , the t'other Fiend Now true , and then a Knave ; Boist'rous sometime , at others kind , But all the Game to save . 10. Chameleon like it takes each Hue , Puts on all Shapes and Sizes , Brings ev'ry Month a Scheme that's new , But Constancy despises . 11. Religion a mere Stalking-Horse , Is in this Region made ; 'Tis High , or Low , or None , that's worse , Just as the Priests are paid . 12. Those Venal Souls puff'd up with Pride Do claim a Pow'r Divine ; The Laymens Backs to mount and ride , At which none must repine . 13. The Firsts and Tenths are not enough The Clergy's Paunch to fill , Two Thirds at lest their Bags must stuff , Or else they take it ill . 14. The Church in Danger is , they cry , When Priests are not in Pow'r , The Laymens Souls in Hell to fry , And Substance to devour . 15. The Monarchy's undone , they say , And Common-Wealth takes place , Unless the High-Priests bear the Sway , And guide the Royal Raze . 16. Thus Bob did teach the Fools to prate Till he had gain'd his Ends , Which was the Chief Posts of the State , And then he bilk'd his Friends . 17. They clamour'd loud he was Unjust , Swore he betray'd their Cause ; And as he serv'd the Blackbirds first , So now he serv'd the Daws . 18. They lov'd to built on Steeples high , And 'bove the Clouds to soar , Control'd by none but Y --- k's Magpy , Yet still they're plagu'd with more . 19. The Eaglet of a Roman Breed They hop'd for long ago , But a She-Vulture in his stead , Continues all their Wo. 20. By ROBINOCRACY , cry they , We're ruin'd and undone ; The Blackbirds did the Dad betray , And Bob will cheat the Son. 21. He hugs the Sister O ------ rp , And fumbles her abed ; Curse on the Lecher's Gunarchy , And on his S. S --- a Trade . 22. We lash'd and damn'd the Rebel W --- gs Until we pull'd 'em down , And now we're chous'd by TO --- y Prigs , Our Cause who dare not own . 23. Or rather would the Saddle keep Since they are god astride , We'll call the Chevalier o'er the Deep , And force the Rogues to hide . 24. Ox --- worser alone shall not bear Rule , And act the Part of Noll ; We'll bait and hunt the Trait'rous Tool To M ------ r's great Hold . 25. The W --- gs mean time do laugh and sneer , As they those Feuds discover , And hope the Clouds at last will clear , In Favour of H ------ ver . 26. Then Jacks and Tories both shall run To Room , or else St. Germain , And in She-Land we shan't have one Of that base sort of Vermin . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . 