The Beggars CHORUS , In the Jovial Crew . To and Excellent New Tune . THere was a jovial Beggar , he had a wooden Leg , Lame from his Cradle , and forced for to Beg. And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go and a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Oat meal , another for my Salt , A little pair of Crutches to see how I can hall And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Bred , another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me to gather what I lose : And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Wheat , another for my Rye , A little Bottle by my side , to drink when I'm adry : And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go and a Begging we will go . To Pimlico we'll go , where merry we shall be , With ev'ry Man a Can in's Hand , and a Wench upon his Knee : And a Begging , etc And when that we are disposed , we tumble on the Grass , With long patch'd Coats for to hide a pretty Lass : And a Begging , etc Seven Years I served my old Master Wild ; Seven Years I begged , while I was but a Child : And a Begging , etc [ I ] had the pretty knack for to wheedle and to cry ; By young and by old , much pitied e'er was I : And a Begging , etc Fatherless and Motherless still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me , but took me for a Sain And a Begging , etc I begg'd for my Master , and god him store of Pelf ; But Jove now be praised , I now beg for myself : And a Begging , etc Within a hollow Tree I live , and pay no Rend ; Providence provides for me , and I am well conten And a Begging , etc Of all Occupations a Beggar lives the best ; For when he is a weary he'll lie him down and res And a Begging , etc I fear no Plots against me , but live in open Cell ; Why who wou'd be a King , when a Beggar lives so well ? And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . Printed for J. Walter , at the Golden Ball in Pyecorner . The Beggars CHORUS , In the Jovial Crew . To and Excellent New Tune . THere was a jovial Beggar , he had a wooden Leg , Lame from his Cradle , and forced for to Beg. And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go and a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Oat meal , another for my Salt , A little pair of Crutches to see how I can hall And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Bred , another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me to gather what I lose : And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Wheat , another for my Rye , A little Bottle by my side , to drink when I'm adry : And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go and a Begging we will go . To Pimlico we'll go , where merry we shall be , With ev'ry Man a Can in's Hand , and a Wench upon his Knee : And a Begging , etc And when that we are disposed , we tumble on the Grass , With long patch'd Coats for to hide a pretty Lass : And a Begging , etc Seven Years I served my old Master Wild ; Seven Years I begged , while I was but a Child : And a Begging , etc [ I ] had the pretty knack for to wheedle and to cry ; By young and by old , much pitied e'er was I : And a Begging , etc Fatherless and Motherless still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me , but took me for a Sain And a Begging , etc I begg'd for my Master , and god him store of Pelf ; But Jove now be praised , I now beg for myself : And a Begging , etc Within a hollow Tree I live , and pay no Rend ; Providence provides for me , and I am well conten And a Begging , etc Of all Occupations a Beggar lives the best ; For when he is a weary he'll lie him down and res And a Begging , etc I fear no Plots against me , but live in open Cell ; Why who wou'd be a King , when a Beggar lives so well ? And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . Printed for J. Walter , at the Golden Ball in Pyecorner . 