THE Fair MAID of Islington : OR , THE London Vintner Over-reach'd . This is a pretty FANCY if you mind , He thought to fool her , since she was so kind ; But she was crafty , and resolv'd to fit him , And in the end it prov'd she did Outwit him ; She for her CELLER made him pay her Rend , As by a Wile , which made him to repent . To the Tune of , Sellenger's Round : or , Caper and Ferk it , etc Licensed and Enter'd according to Order . THere was a fair Maid at Islington , as I herd many tell , And she would to fair London go fine Apples and Pears to fell : And as she pass'd along the Street , with her Basket on her arm , There did she with a Vintner meet , this fair Maid thought no harm . Good morrow , fair Maid , the Vintner said , What have you god here to fell ? Fine Apples & Pears , kind Sir , she said , if you please to taste them , well . He tasted of this fair Maid's Fruit , and he lik'd it wondrous well ; And then he crav'd of this fair Maid , how many a penny she'd fell . Sir , here you shall have six , she said , and here you shall have ten ; I sold no more , but just before , to some Inns of Court Gentlemen . Now while he by the Damsel stayed , her Body he did eye , At length he crav'd of this fair Maid , one night with him to lie : Thy Beauty does so please my eye , and dazzles so my sighed , That now of all my Liberty , I am deprived quite : And therefore Love be kind to me , and let us toy and play , It is but one small Courtesy , then do not say me nay . Sir , if you lie with me one night , as you propound to me , I do expect that you should prove both courteous , kind , and free : And for to tell you all in short , it will cost you Five Pound . A match , a match , the Vintner said , and so let this go round . When he had lain with her all night , her Money she did crave : Oh stay , quoth he , the other night , and thy Money thou shalt have . I cannot stay , nor I will not stay , I needs must now begone , Why then thou mayest thy Money go look , for Money I'll pay thee none . This Maid she made no more ado , but to a Justice went , And unto him she made her moan , who did her Case lamen She said she had a Cellar let out , to a Vintner in the Town , And how that he did then agree , Five Pound to pay her down : But now , quoth she , the case is such , no Rend that he will pay , Therefore your Worship I beseech , to send for him this day . Then straight the Justice for him sent , and ask'd the reason why , That he would pay this Maid no Rend ; to which he did reply , Although I hired a Cellar of her , and the Possion was mine , I ne'er put anything into it but one poor Pipe of Wine ; Therefore my Bargain it was hard , as you may plainly see , I from my Freedom was debar'd ; then good Sir favour me . This fair Maid being ripe of Wit , she straight reply'd again , There was two Butts lay at the Door , why did you not roll them in ? You had your Freedom and your Will , as is to you well known , Therefore I do desire still for to receive my own . The Justice hearing of their Case , did there give order straight , That he the Money should pay down , she should no longer wai Withal he told the Vintner plain , if he a Tenant be , He must expect to pay the same , for he could not fit Rent-free . But when her Money she had god , she put it into her Purse , And clapped her hand on the Cellar-door , and said it was never the worse : Which caus'd the People all to laugh to see this Vintner fine , Outwitted by a Country Girl about his Pipe of Wine . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . THE Fair MAID of Islington : OR , THE London Vintner Over-reach'd . This is a pretty FANCY if you mind , He thought to fool her , since she was so kind ; But she was crafty , and resolv'd to fit him , And in the end it prov'd she did Outwit him ; She for her CELLER made him pay her Rend , As by a Wile , which made him to repent . To the Tune of , Sellenger's Round : or , Caper and Ferk it , etc Licensed and Enter'd according to Order . THere was a fair Maid at Islington , as I herd many tell , And she would to fair London go fine Apples and Pears to fell : And as she pass'd along the Street , with her Basket on her arm , There did she with a Vintner meet , this fair Maid thought no harm . Good morrow , fair Maid , the Vintner said , What have you god here to fell ? Fine Apples & Pears , kind Sir , she said , if you please to taste them , well . He tasted of this fair Maid's Fruit , and he lik'd it wondrous well ; And then he crav'd of this fair Maid , how many a penny she'd fell . Sir , here you shall have six , she said , and here you shall have ten ; I sold no more , but just before , to some Inns of Court Gentlemen . Now while he by the Damsel stayed , her Body he did eye , At length he crav'd of this fair Maid , one night with him to lie : Thy Beauty does so please my eye , and dazzles so my sighed , That now of all my Liberty , I am deprived quite : And therefore Love be kind to me , and let us toy and play , It is but one small Courtesy , then do not say me nay . Sir , if you lie with me one night , as you propound to me , I do expect that you should prove both courteous , kind , and free : And for to tell you all in short , it will cost you Five Pound . A match , a match , the Vintner said , and so let this go round . When he had lain with her all night , her Money she did crave : Oh stay , quoth he , the other night , and thy Money thou shalt have . I cannot stay , nor I will not stay , I needs must now begone , Why then thou mayest thy Money go look , for Money I'll pay thee none . This Maid she made no more ado , but to a Justice went , And unto him she made her moan , who did her Case lamen She said she had a Cellar let out , to a Vintner in the Town , And how that he did then agree , Five Pound to pay her down : But now , quoth she , the case is such , no Rend that he will pay , Therefore your Worship I beseech , to send for him this day . Then straight the Justice for him sent , and ask'd the reason why , That he would pay this Maid no Rend ; to which he did reply , Although I hired a Cellar of her , and the Possion was mine , I ne'er put anything into it but one poor Pipe of Wine ; Therefore my Bargain it was hard , as you may plainly see , I from my Freedom was debar'd ; then good Sir favour me . This fair Maid being ripe of Wit , she straight reply'd again , There was two Butts lay at the Door , why did you not roll them in ? You had your Freedom and your Will , as is to you well known , Therefore I do desire still for to receive my own . The Justice hearing of their Case , did there give order straight , That he the Money should pay down , she should no longer wai Withal he told the Vintner plain , if he a Tenant be , He must expect to pay the same , for he could not fit Rent-free . But when her Money she had god , she put it into her Purse , And clapped her hand on the Cellar-door , and said it was never the worse : Which caus'd the People all to laugh to see this Vintner fine , Outwitted by a Country Girl about his Pipe of Wine . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 