The fickle Northern Lass : OR , The Wronged Shepherd's Resolution . He thought himself the Jolliest of the crew , While that his Love remained firm and true ; But she false Maid did prove to him disloyal , And was not constant to abide the Trial : which made him to resolve thus in his mind Never to trust no more to Womenkind . Tune of , There was a Lass in the North-Country , etc THere was a Lass in the North-Country And she had Lovers two or three ; But she unkindly dealt by one , Who had to her great favour shown : Which made him thus for to complain , I never will see my Love again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her Ribbons for to wear , And now and then a pair of Gloves , But she unkindly dealt by me , And gave them to her other Loves : But now in the Country will I high , And for to seek a new Victory . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . Sometime she vow'd she did me love , And I was apt for to believe , But all her flattering words did prove , No more then baits for to deceive : As I do find it to my pain , Therefore I'le never believe again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind . I'le trust no more to womenkind . As she was fair , had she been true , I should have had no cause to rue ; But she was fickle in her mind , Subject to waver with the wind : With each new face that she did see , She presently in love would be . And since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I Must confess that in my eye , She was a Pearl I valued high , But what is beauty without Grace , Or one where Virtue hath no place ? Her false alluring smiles , no more Shall draw my senses out of door . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her heart , I gave her hand , And all I had at her command ; She could not ask what she would have , But presently the same I gave : Yet all my favours prov'd in vain , For she would not requite my pain : Then since , etc When I did think her most secure , Another did her mind allure ; And by some crafty wiles she went , To undermine my sweet conten So that I now repent the day , That e're I cast my Love away . For since , etc But now my resolution's such , To suffer for my loving much ; All women's company I'le shun , For fear I further be undone : And go where none hath power to know , The subject of my grief and woe . For since , etc And in some dark and dismal place , There will I built myself a Cave , And in some low and barren ground , Where none but Shepherd's can be found : I'le find a place for to bewail My sorrows which does me assail : For since , etc Some shady Desert I will choose , Which other Mortals all refuse , And on the Trees her Name I'le carve , That does from me so ill deserve ; That future ages all may know , What love to her I once did owe . And since , etc The purling streams with me shall mourn , And leaves relenting all shall turn ; The wood-Nymphs who my plaints do hear Shall now and then afford a tear : All blaming her for cruelty , That brought me to this misery . And since , etc , And when my time is drawing nigh , I will prepare myself to die ; The Robin-Red-Breasts kind will be , Perhaps with leaves to cover me : Then to the World i'le bid adieu , And unto her that prov'd untrue : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , Youngmen beware of Womenkind . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The fickle Northern Lass : OR , The Wronged Shepherd's Resolution . He thought himself the Jolliest of the crew , While that his Love remained firm and true ; But she false Maid did prove to him disloyal , And was not constant to abide the Trial : which made him to resolve thus in his mind Never to trust no more to Womenkind . Tune of , There was a Lass in the North-Country , etc THere was a Lass in the North-Country And she had Lovers two or three ; But she unkindly dealt by one , Who had to her great favour shown : Which made him thus for to complain , I never will see my Love again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her Ribbons for to wear , And now and then a pair of Gloves , But she unkindly dealt by me , And gave them to her other Loves : But now in the Country will I high , And for to seek a new Victory . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . Sometime she vow'd she did me love , And I was apt for to believe , But all her flattering words did prove , No more then baits for to deceive : As I do find it to my pain , Therefore I'le never believe again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind . I'le trust no more to womenkind . As she was fair , had she been true , I should have had no cause to rue ; But she was fickle in her mind , Subject to waver with the wind : With each new face that she did see , She presently in love would be . And since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I Must confess that in my eye , She was a Pearl I valued high , But what is beauty without Grace , Or one where Virtue hath no place ? Her false alluring smiles , no more Shall draw my senses out of door . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her heart , I gave her hand , And all I had at her command ; She could not ask what she would have , But presently the same I gave : Yet all my favours prov'd in vain , For she would not requite my pain : Then since , etc When I did think her most secure , Another did her mind allure ; And by some crafty wiles she went , To undermine my sweet conten So that I now repent the day , That e're I cast my Love away . For since , etc But now my resolution's such , To suffer for my loving much ; All women's company I'le shun , For fear I further be undone : And go where none hath power to know , The subject of my grief and woe . For since , etc And in some dark and dismal place , There will I built myself a Cave , And in some low and barren ground , Where none but Shepherd's can be found : I'le find a place for to bewail My sorrows which does me assail : For since , etc Some shady Desert I will choose , Which other Mortals all refuse , And on the Trees her Name I'le carve , That does from me so ill deserve ; That future ages all may know , What love to her I once did owe . And since , etc The purling streams with me shall mourn , And leaves relenting all shall turn ; The wood-Nymphs who my plaints do hear Shall now and then afford a tear : All blaming her for cruelty , That brought me to this misery . And since , etc , And when my time is drawing nigh , I will prepare myself to die ; The Robin-Red-Breasts kind will be , Perhaps with leaves to cover me : Then to the World i'le bid adieu , And unto her that prov'd untrue : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , Youngmen beware of Womenkind . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The fickle Northern Lass : OR , The Wronged Shepherd's Resolution . He thought himself the Jolliest of the crew , While that his Love remained firm and true ; But she false Maid did prove to him disloyal , And was not constant to abide the Trial : which made him to resolve thus in his mind Never to trust no more to Womenkind . Tune of , There was a Lass in the North-Country , etc THere was a Lass in the North-Country And she had Lovers two or three ; But she unkindly dealt by one , Who had to her great favour shown : Which made him thus for to complain , I never will see my Love again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her Ribbons for to wear , And now and then a pair of Gloves , But she unkindly dealt by me , And gave them to her other Loves : But now in the Country will I high , And for to seek a new Victory . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . Sometime she vow'd she did me love , And I was apt for to believe , But all her flattering words did prove , No more then baits for to deceive : As I do find it to my pain , Therefore I'le never believe again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind . I'le trust no more to womenkind . As she was fair , had she been true , I should have had no cause to rue ; But she was fickle in her mind , Subject to waver with the wind : With each new face that she did see , She presently in love would be . And since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I Must confess that in my eye , She was a Pearl I valued high , But what is beauty without Grace , Or one where Virtue hath no place ? Her false alluring smiles , no more Shall draw my senses out of door . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her heart , I gave her hand , And all I had at her command ; She could not ask what she would have , But presently the same I gave : Yet all my favours prov'd in vain , For she would not requite my pain : Then since , etc When I did think her most secure , Another did her mind allure ; And by some crafty wiles she went , To undermine my sweet conten So that I now repent the day , That e're I cast my Love away . For since , etc But now my resolution's such , To suffer for my loving much ; All women's company I'le shun , For fear I further be undone : And go where none hath power to know , The subject of my grief and woe . For since , etc And in some dark and dismal place , There will I built myself a Cave , And in some low and barren ground , Where none but Shepherd's can be found : I'le find a place for to bewail My sorrows which does me assail : For since , etc Some shady Desert I will choose , Which other Mortals all refuse , And on the Trees her Name I'le carve , That does from me so ill deserve ; That future ages all may know , What love to her I once did owe . And since , etc The purling streams with me shall mourn , And leaves relenting all shall turn ; The wood-Nymphs who my plaints do hear Shall now and then afford a tear : All blaming her for cruelty , That brought me to this misery . And since , etc , And when my time is drawing nigh , I will prepare myself to die ; The Robin-Red-Breasts kind will be , Perhaps with leaves to cover me : Then to the World i'le bid adieu , And unto her that prov'd untrue : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , Youngmen beware of Womenkind . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The fickle Northern Lass : OR , The Wronged Shepherd's Resolution . He thought himself the Jolliest of the crew , While that his Love remained firm and true ; But she false Maid did prove to him disloyal , And was not constant to abide the Trial : which made him to resolve thus in his mind Never to trust no more to Womenkind . Tune of , There was a Lass in the North-Country , etc THere was a Lass in the North-Country And she had Lovers two or three ; But she unkindly dealt by one , Who had to her great favour shown : Which made him thus for to complain , I never will see my Love again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her Ribbons for to wear , And now and then a pair of Gloves , But she unkindly dealt by me , And gave them to her other Loves : But now in the Country will I high , And for to seek a new Victory . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . Sometime she vow'd she did me love , And I was apt for to believe , But all her flattering words did prove , No more then baits for to deceive : As I do find it to my pain , Therefore I'le never believe again : For since that she hath chang'd her mind . I'le trust no more to womenkind . As she was fair , had she been true , I should have had no cause to rue ; But she was fickle in her mind , Subject to waver with the wind : With each new face that she did see , She presently in love would be . And since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I Must confess that in my eye , She was a Pearl I valued high , But what is beauty without Grace , Or one where Virtue hath no place ? Her false alluring smiles , no more Shall draw my senses out of door . For since that she hath chang'd her mind , I'le trust no more to womenkind . I gave her heart , I gave her hand , And all I had at her command ; She could not ask what she would have , But presently the same I gave : Yet all my favours prov'd in vain , For she would not requite my pain : Then since , etc When I did think her most secure , Another did her mind allure ; And by some crafty wiles she went , To undermine my sweet conten So that I now repent the day , That e're I cast my Love away . For since , etc But now my resolution's such , To suffer for my loving much ; All women's company I'le shun , For fear I further be undone : And go where none hath power to know , The subject of my grief and woe . For since , etc And in some dark and dismal place , There will I built myself a Cave , And in some low and barren ground , Where none but Shepherd's can be found : I'le find a place for to bewail My sorrows which does me assail : For since , etc Some shady Desert I will choose , Which other Mortals all refuse , And on the Trees her Name I'le carve , That does from me so ill deserve ; That future ages all may know , What love to her I once did owe . And since , etc The purling streams with me shall mourn , And leaves relenting all shall turn ; The wood-Nymphs who my plaints do hear Shall now and then afford a tear : All blaming her for cruelty , That brought me to this misery . And since , etc , And when my time is drawing nigh , I will prepare myself to die ; The Robin-Red-Breasts kind will be , Perhaps with leaves to cover me : Then to the World i'le bid adieu , And unto her that prov'd untrue : For since that she hath chang'd her mind , Youngmen beware of Womenkind . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 