St. GEORGE & the DRAGON . WHY should we boast of Arthur and his knights , Knowing how many men performed fights , Or why should we speak of Sir Lancellot du Lake , Or Sir Tristram Drulyon that fought for lady's sake , Read old stories , and there you will see , How St. George , St. George , he made the dragon flee . CHORUS . St. George he was for England , --- St. Dennis was for France , And sing , --- " HONI SOIT QUI MAL . Y. PENSE . " To speak of monarchs , it were too long to tell , Likewise of the Roman , how far they did excel , Hannibal , a Scipio , in many a fight , Orlando Tortuso , he was a valiant knight . Romulus and Remus , were those that Room did built , But St. Geo. St. Geo. the dragon he has killed . --- CHORUS . St. Geo. etc Valentine and Orson they came of king Pippin's blood , Sir Alfred and Alerick , they were brave knights , and good , The four sons of Ammon that fought for Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , and Sir Godfrey de Bulloin , These were French knights , the Pagans did convert , But St. George , St. George , pulled out the dragons heart . --- CHORUS . Jephthah and Gideon they led their men to fight , The Ammonites and Gideonites they put all to the flight , Herculas , his labour was in a vale of brass , And Sampson slew ten thousand with the jawbone of and ass : And when he was blind he pulled the temple down , But St. George , St. George , the dragon did confound . --- CHORUS . Henry the fifth he conquered all France , He quartered his arms , his honour to advance , He raised the walls , and he pulled the cities down , And garnished his head with a double triple crown : He thumped the French , and after home he came , But St. George , St. George , the dragon he made tame . --- CHORUS . St. David you know loves leeks and toasted cheese , And Jason was the man that brought home the golden fleece , St. Patrick you know he was St. George's boy , Seven years he kept his horse and then stole him away : For which knavish act a slave he does remain , But St. George , St. George , he hath the dragon slave . --- CHORUS . Tamerlain the emperor in and iron cage was crowned , With his bloody flag displayed before the town , Skanderburgh , and Magnanimus , Mahomets bashaws did dread , Whose victorious bones was born when he was dead : William , so famed , the Conqueror he was called , But St. George , St. George , the dragon he has mauled . --- CHORUS . Pendragon and Cadwaladar of british blood do boast , Though John of Gaunt his foes did daunt , St. George did rule the roast , Haggememmon and Cleomedes and Massedon did feats , But to be compared to our champions they are but merely cheats : Brave Malta knights in Turkish fights , their brandished swords drew , But St. George , St. George , thrust the dragon through & through . Ottoman the Tartar , he came of Persia's raze , The great Mogul with his chest full of cloves and mace , The Grecian youth Baucephulus , did manfully bestride , But these with the worthy nine , St. George he did deride , Gustavius Adaulphus , was Sweden's warlike king , But St. George , St. George , pulled out the dragon's sting . --- CHORUS . Mark Anthony , I'll warrant you , played feats with Egypt's queen , Sir Eglemore , the valiant knight , the like was never seen , Grim Gorgan's might was known in fight , old Beves most men frighted , The Mirme Dons and Presto Johns , why were not these men knighted ? Brave Spinalaw took in Breedshaw , Nosson did it recover , But St. George , St. George , turned the dragon over and over . Bedean the Amazon , Poetat overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Sarisan , or Jew , The potent Olofernes , as he lay in his bed , In came wise Judith and stole away his head , With Jove , the Cyclops , though he showered down thunder , But St. George the dragon killed , and was not that a wonder . J. TURNER , PRINTER , HIGH STREET , COVENTRY . St. GEORGE & the DRAGON . WHY should we boast of Arthur and his knights , Knowing how many men performed fights , Or why should we speak of Sir Lancellot du Lake , Or Sir Tristram Drulyon that fought for lady's sake , Read old stories , and there you will see , How St. George , St. George , he made the dragon flee . CHORUS . St. George he was for England , --- St. Dennis was for France , And sing , --- " HONI SOIT QUI MAL . Y. PENSE . " To speak of monarchs , it were too long to tell , Likewise of the Roman , how far they did excel , Hannibal , a Scipio , in many a fight , Orlando Tortuso , he was a valiant knight . Romulus and Remus , were those that Room did built , But St. Geo. St. Geo. the dragon he has killed . --- CHORUS . St. Geo. etc Valentine and Orson they came of king Pippin's blood , Sir Alfred and Alerick , they were brave knights , and good , The four sons of Ammon that fought for Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , and Sir Godfrey de Bulloin , These were French knights , the Pagans did convert , But St. George , St. George , pulled out the dragons heart . --- CHORUS . Jephthah and Gideon they led their men to fight , The Ammonites and Gideonites they put all to the flight , Herculas , his labour was in a vale of brass , And Sampson slew ten thousand with the jawbone of and ass : And when he was blind he pulled the temple down , But St. George , St. George , the dragon did confound . --- CHORUS . Henry the fifth he conquered all France , He quartered his arms , his honour to advance , He raised the walls , and he pulled the cities down , And garnished his head with a double triple crown : He thumped the French , and after home he came , But St. George , St. George , the dragon he made tame . --- CHORUS . St. David you know loves leeks and toasted cheese , And Jason was the man that brought home the golden fleece , St. Patrick you know he was St. George's boy , Seven years he kept his horse and then stole him away : For which knavish act a slave he does remain , But St. George , St. George , he hath the dragon slave . --- CHORUS . Tamerlain the emperor in and iron cage was crowned , With his bloody flag displayed before the town , Skanderburgh , and Magnanimus , Mahomets bashaws did dread , Whose victorious bones was born when he was dead : William , so famed , the Conqueror he was called , But St. George , St. George , the dragon he has mauled . --- CHORUS . Pendragon and Cadwaladar of british blood do boast , Though John of Gaunt his foes did daunt , St. George did rule the roast , Haggememmon and Cleomedes and Massedon did feats , But to be compared to our champions they are but merely cheats : Brave Malta knights in Turkish fights , their brandished swords drew , But St. George , St. George , thrust the dragon through & through . Ottoman the Tartar , he came of Persia's raze , The great Mogul with his chest full of cloves and mace , The Grecian youth Baucephulus , did manfully bestride , But these with the worthy nine , St. George he did deride , Gustavius Adaulphus , was Sweden's warlike king , But St. George , St. George , pulled out the dragon's sting . --- CHORUS . Mark Anthony , I'll warrant you , played feats with Egypt's queen , Sir Eglemore , the valiant knight , the like was never seen , Grim Gorgan's might was known in fight , old Beves most men frighted , The Mirme Dons and Presto Johns , why were not these men knighted ? Brave Spinalaw took in Breedshaw , Nosson did it recover , But St. George , St. George , turned the dragon over and over . Bedean the Amazon , Poetat overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Sarisan , or Jew , The potent Olofernes , as he lay in his bed , In came wise Judith and stole away his head , With Jove , the Cyclops , though he showered down thunder , But St. George the dragon killed , and was not that a wonder . J. TURNER , PRINTER , HIGH STREET , COVENTRY . 