The Spanish LADY's Love To and English SAILOR . WILL you hear of a Spanish Lady , How she wooed and English man ? Garments gay , as rich as may be , Decked with Jewels she had on . Of a comely countenance , And grace was she ; By birth and parentage Of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , In his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's bans did bind them faster By the linking of the eye : In his courteous company Was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing She was not coy . But at length there came commandment For to set all Ladies free . With their Jewels still adorned , None to do them injury : Then said this Lady mild , Full woe is me ! O let me still enjoy My kind captivity . Gallant Captain take some pity On a woman in distress , Leave me not within this city For to die in heaviness : They have set this present day My body free ; But my heart in prison still Remains with thee . Why shouldst thou fair lady love me ? Whom thou knowest thy country's foe , Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lurk where flowers grow . All the harm I wish on thee , Most courageous Knight , I wish the same on me May fully light . Blessed be the time and season , When you came on Spanish ground , If that you our foes be termed , Gentle foes we have you found , With our city you have wone Our hearts each one Then to your country bear away What is your own . Rest you still you gallant lady , Rest you still , and weep no more Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with Jealousy We most often find But Englishmen throughout the world Are counted kind . Leave me not under a Spaniard , Thou alone enjoyest my heart ; I am loving , young , and tender , Love is likewise my desert Still to court thee day and night , My mind is pressed , The wise of every Englishman Is surely blessed . It would be a shame great lady , For to bear a woman hence ; English soldiers never carry Any such without offence : I will quickly change myself , And if it be so , I like a page will follow thee Wheresoever you go . I have neither gold nor silver , For to maintain you in this case , And to travel is great charges , Which you know in every place : My chains and Jewels every one Shall be all thy own ; And eke ten thousand pounds in gold Which lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , Many storms do there arise , Which will be to the ladies fatal , And force the tears from their eyes : Well , in troth , I shall endure The utmost extremity ; For I could find in my heart to loose My life for thee . Courteous Lady leave this folly , Here comes all that breeds this strife , I in England have already A sweet woman to my wife : I will not falsify my vow , For gold or gain , Nor yet for all the fairest dams Which are in Spain . O how happy is that woman Who enjoys so kind a friend ? Many days I pray God send her , Thus of my suit I make and end ; On my knees I do pardon crave For this my offence ; Which love and true affection Did the first commence Commend me to that gallant lady , Bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets for a token , Grieving that I was so bold : All these Jewels in like sort Take thou with thee ; For they are fitting for thy wife , And not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , Love and all its laws defy . In a nunnery I will shroud me , For from any company : But ever my prayers have and end , Be thou sure of this , To pray for thee and thy lady I will not miss . Thus farewell thou gallant Captain , Farewell to thy heart's content , Count no Spanish Lady wanton , Though on thee my heart was ben All Joy and Prosperity Remain with thee : The like fallen to thy share , Most gallant Lady . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard . Bow Lane , London . The Spanish LADY's Love To and English SAILOR . WILL you hear of a Spanish Lady , How she wooed and English man ? Garments gay , as rich as may be , Decked with Jewels she had on . Of a comely countenance , And grace was she ; By birth and parentage Of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , In his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's bans did bind them faster By the linking of the eye : In his courteous company Was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing She was not coy . But at length there came commandment For to set all Ladies free . With their Jewels still adorned , None to do them injury : Then said this Lady mild , Full woe is me ! O let me still enjoy My kind captivity . Gallant Captain take some pity On a woman in distress , Leave me not within this city For to die in heaviness : They have set this present day My body free ; But my heart in prison still Remains with thee . Why shouldst thou fair lady love me ? Whom thou knowest thy country's foe , Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lurk where flowers grow . All the harm I wish on thee , Most courageous Knight , I wish the same on me May fully light . Blessed be the time and season , When you came on Spanish ground , If that you our foes be termed , Gentle foes we have you found , With our city you have wone Our hearts each one Then to your country bear away What is your own . Rest you still you gallant lady , Rest you still , and weep no more Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with Jealousy We most often find But Englishmen throughout the world Are counted kind . Leave me not under a Spaniard , Thou alone enjoyest my heart ; I am loving , young , and tender , Love is likewise my desert Still to court thee day and night , My mind is pressed , The wise of every Englishman Is surely blessed . It would be a shame great lady , For to bear a woman hence ; English soldiers never carry Any such without offence : I will quickly change myself , And if it be so , I like a page will follow thee Wheresoever you go . I have neither gold nor silver , For to maintain you in this case , And to travel is great charges , Which you know in every place : My chains and Jewels every one Shall be all thy own ; And eke ten thousand pounds in gold Which lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , Many storms do there arise , Which will be to the ladies fatal , And force the tears from their eyes : Well , in troth , I shall endure The utmost extremity ; For I could find in my heart to loose My life for thee . Courteous Lady leave this folly , Here comes all that breeds this strife , I in England have already A sweet woman to my wife : I will not falsify my vow , For gold or gain , Nor yet for all the fairest dams Which are in Spain . O how happy is that woman Who enjoys so kind a friend ? Many days I pray God send her , Thus of my suit I make and end ; On my knees I do pardon crave For this my offence ; Which love and true affection Did the first commence Commend me to that gallant lady , Bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets for a token , Grieving that I was so bold : All these Jewels in like sort Take thou with thee ; For they are fitting for thy wife , And not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , Love and all its laws defy . In a nunnery I will shroud me , For from any company : But ever my prayers have and end , Be thou sure of this , To pray for thee and thy lady I will not miss . Thus farewell thou gallant Captain , Farewell to thy heart's content , Count no Spanish Lady wanton , Though on thee my heart was ben All Joy and Prosperity Remain with thee : The like fallen to thy share , Most gallant Lady . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard . Bow Lane , London . 