Jenny , Jenny ; Or , The falsehearted Knight , And Kindhearted Lass. He wooed fair Jenny , but he would not be wed , He only sued to get her Maidenhead , Which having god , he did poor Jenny slight , And left her like a false disloyal Knight , Now she that was in hope's to be a Lady , Hath time enough to sing ba low my baby . To a New Scotch Tun Or ; Jenny , Jenny , etc THere was a Lass in our Town , and she was wondrous fair , There was a Knight of high renown , and he was wondrous rare ; 'Tis for the love of thee I die , Jenny , Jenny , 'Tis for the love of thee I die Jenny , Jenny . 'Tis pity that a Knight so gay , should die for the love of me , I had rather loose my life today , then such a thing should be . Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . What would my Daddy and Mammy say if I with thee should ben , That sure I was run away with whom I did not ken . Pish , lay all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny , Lig all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny . But what if I should prove with Child , as it perhaps may be , Then you must provide a Nursing bower , for your young Son and me . Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , quoth he , Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , Jenny . ANd down in yonder greenwood , I ken it well of old , Where I shall sustain enough of both hunger and of cold . Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , quoth he , Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , Jenny . Now you have had your will of me , and brought me unto shame , If I do beg some boons of you , say not I am too blame : Well fare thy bonny brow , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Now tell what thou wouldst have of me : Jenny , Jenny . May't please your kind courtesy to gang under yonders town , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a Silken Gown . Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . May't please you of kind courtesy to gang into yonder Fare , May't please your kind courtesy , to buy me and ambling Mare . Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . I pray you will not angry be while I beg one small Boon , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a pair of Shoes . Let him that rides thee next , shoe thee quod he . Jenny , Jenny , For thou shalt ne'r be shod by me , Jenny , Jenny . Once more I beg your kind courtesy , to gang to yonders Teek , And there do so much for me as buy me a seeing Kit. Kit even in the Well , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , For there thy beauty thou mayest see , Jenny , Jenny . By this young Lasses all may learn how they do yield to love , And not to trust deluding men , that will false hearted prove . Had Jenny kept her Maidenhead , she might a liv'd free , But now I do lament the case of Jenny , Jenny . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Jenny , Jenny ; Or , The falsehearted Knight , And Kindhearted Lass. He wooed fair Jenny , but he would not be wed , He only sued to get her Maidenhead , Which having god , he did poor Jenny slight , And left her like a false disloyal Knight , Now she that was in hope's to be a Lady , Hath time enough to sing ba low my baby . To a New Scotch Tun Or ; Jenny , Jenny , etc THere was a Lass in our Town , and she was wondrous fair , There was a Knight of high renown , and he was wondrous rare ; 'Tis for the love of thee I die , Jenny , Jenny , 'Tis for the love of thee I die Jenny , Jenny . 'Tis pity that a Knight so gay , should die for the love of me , I had rather loose my life today , then such a thing should be . Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . What would my Daddy and Mammy say if I with thee should ben , That sure I was run away with whom I did not ken . Pish , lay all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny , Lig all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny . But what if I should prove with Child , as it perhaps may be , Then you must provide a Nursing bower , for your young Son and me . Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , quoth he , Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , Jenny . ANd down in yonder greenwood , I ken it well of old , Where I shall sustain enough of both hunger and of cold . Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , quoth he , Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , Jenny . Now you have had your will of me , and brought me unto shame , If I do beg some boons of you , say not I am too blame : Well fare thy bonny brow , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Now tell what thou wouldst have of me : Jenny , Jenny . May't please your kind courtesy to gang under yonders town , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a Silken Gown . Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . May't please you of kind courtesy to gang into yonder Fare , May't please your kind courtesy , to buy me and ambling Mare . Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . I pray you will not angry be while I beg one small Boon , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a pair of Shoes . Let him that rides thee next , shoe thee quod he . Jenny , Jenny , For thou shalt ne'r be shod by me , Jenny , Jenny . Once more I beg your kind courtesy , to gang to yonders Teek , And there do so much for me as buy me a seeing Kit. Kit even in the Well , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , For there thy beauty thou mayest see , Jenny , Jenny . By this young Lasses all may learn how they do yield to love , And not to trust deluding men , that will false hearted prove . Had Jenny kept her Maidenhead , she might a liv'd free , But now I do lament the case of Jenny , Jenny . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Jenny , Jenny ; Or , The falsehearted Knight , And Kindhearted Lass. He wooed fair Jenny , but he would not be wed , He only sued to get her Maidenhead , Which having god , he did poor Jenny slight , And left her like a false disloyal Knight , Now she that was in hope's to be a Lady , Hath time enough to sing ba low my baby . To a New Scotch Tun Or ; Jenny , Jenny , etc THere was a Lass in our Town , and she was wondrous fair , There was a Knight of high renown , and he was wondrous rare ; 'Tis for the love of thee I die , Jenny , Jenny , 'Tis for the love of thee I die Jenny , Jenny . 'Tis pity that a Knight so gay , should die for the love of me , I had rather loose my life today , then such a thing should be . Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . What would my Daddy and Mammy say if I with thee should ben , That sure I was run away with whom I did not ken . Pish , lay all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny , Lig all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny . But what if I should prove with Child , as it perhaps may be , Then you must provide a Nursing bower , for your young Son and me . Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , quoth he , Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , Jenny . ANd down in yonder greenwood , I ken it well of old , Where I shall sustain enough of both hunger and of cold . Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , quoth he , Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , Jenny . Now you have had your will of me , and brought me unto shame , If I do beg some boons of you , say not I am too blame : Well fare thy bonny brow , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Now tell what thou wouldst have of me : Jenny , Jenny . May't please your kind courtesy to gang under yonders town , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a Silken Gown . Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . May't please you of kind courtesy to gang into yonder Fare , May't please your kind courtesy , to buy me and ambling Mare . Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . I pray you will not angry be while I beg one small Boon , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a pair of Shoes . Let him that rides thee next , shoe thee quod he . Jenny , Jenny , For thou shalt ne'r be shod by me , Jenny , Jenny . Once more I beg your kind courtesy , to gang to yonders Teek , And there do so much for me as buy me a seeing Kit. Kit even in the Well , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , For there thy beauty thou mayest see , Jenny , Jenny . By this young Lasses all may learn how they do yield to love , And not to trust deluding men , that will false hearted prove . Had Jenny kept her Maidenhead , she might a liv'd free , But now I do lament the case of Jenny , Jenny . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Jenny , Jenny ; Or , The falsehearted Knight , And Kindhearted Lass. He wooed fair Jenny , but he would not be wed , He only sued to get her Maidenhead , Which having god , he did poor Jenny slight , And left her like a false disloyal Knight , Now she that was in hope's to be a Lady , Hath time enough to sing ba low my baby . To a New Scotch Tun Or ; Jenny , Jenny , etc THere was a Lass in our Town , and she was wondrous fair , There was a Knight of high renown , and he was wondrous rare ; 'Tis for the love of thee I die , Jenny , Jenny , 'Tis for the love of thee I die Jenny , Jenny . 'Tis pity that a Knight so gay , should die for the love of me , I had rather loose my life today , then such a thing should be . Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Then gang along with me , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . What would my Daddy and Mammy say if I with thee should ben , That sure I was run away with whom I did not ken . Pish , lay all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny , Lig all the blame upon my back , Jenny , Jenny . But what if I should prove with Child , as it perhaps may be , Then you must provide a Nursing bower , for your young Son and me . Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , quoth he , Then down to yonder Greenwood go , Jenny , Jenny . ANd down in yonder greenwood , I ken it well of old , Where I shall sustain enough of both hunger and of cold . Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , quoth he , Then lig the Trees upon the fire , Jenny , Jenny . Now you have had your will of me , and brought me unto shame , If I do beg some boons of you , say not I am too blame : Well fare thy bonny brow , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Now tell what thou wouldst have of me : Jenny , Jenny . May't please your kind courtesy to gang under yonders town , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a Silken Gown . Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Mend the old one for a new , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . May't please you of kind courtesy to gang into yonder Fare , May't please your kind courtesy , to buy me and ambling Mare . Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , Ride on thy Spinning-wheel , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny . I pray you will not angry be while I beg one small Boon , May't please your kind courtesy to buy me a pair of Shoes . Let him that rides thee next , shoe thee quod he . Jenny , Jenny , For thou shalt ne'r be shod by me , Jenny , Jenny . Once more I beg your kind courtesy , to gang to yonders Teek , And there do so much for me as buy me a seeing Kit. Kit even in the Well , quoth he , Jenny , Jenny , For there thy beauty thou mayest see , Jenny , Jenny . By this young Lasses all may learn how they do yield to love , And not to trust deluding men , that will false hearted prove . Had Jenny kept her Maidenhead , she might a liv'd free , But now I do lament the case of Jenny , Jenny . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 