The Lady of Pleasure , OR , THE LONDON Misses Frolic , Whereby she god Money by her subtle Devices and Witty Intrigues , as she led in the lose course of her life , which you'l find by the subse - quent matter To a Pleasant New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.L.S. THere was a Lass in London Town ; both beauteous , fair and witty , She travel'd England up and down , through e'ry Town and City : She god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; she god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny Farthing . At last she came to Sturbridge-Fair , and there she met a Farmer , Who did desire to know her name , and swore he would not harm her : But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain , She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . SHe told him she was kind and just , and ne'r would do no Evil , Her hand she in his Pocket thrust , which was indeed uncivil ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny Farthing . She told him then she was in haste , and so from him she parted , Who little thought to be disgrac'd , when she had him deserted ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny Farthing . But when the Reckoning came to pay , the Farmer missed his Money , O , then , quoth he , she's gone away , whom I call'd dear and Honey ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-halfpenny farthing . The Farmer he a Stranger was , and so at last they Stocks'd him , But this was not the worst , alas ! the wicked Jade had Pox'd him ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . She travel'd then to Bristol-Fair , and there she met a Barber , Though gaz'd upon her Beauty fair , love in his Breast did harbour ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four pence-half-penny farthing . The Barber was exceeding kind , and monstrously did praise her , But he did in conclusion find , that she had spoyl'd his Razor ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . She saw a Cobbler brisk and free , a sitting in his Stall too , With him she would Familiar be , while he was at his Awl too ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . Thus you may see some London Dams , that live about the City , By such like Tricks procure their shames , but 'tis the more the pity ; Yet they get money by't , they get money by't , they get money by'th bargain ; They get money by't , they get money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . The Lady of Pleasure , OR , THE LONDON Misses Frolic , Whereby she god Money by her subtle Devices and Witty Intrigues , as she led in the lose course of her life , which you'l find by the subse - quent matter To a Pleasant New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.L.S. THere was a Lass in London Town ; both beauteous , fair and witty , She travel'd England up and down , through e'ry Town and City : She god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; she god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny Farthing . At last she came to Sturbridge-Fair , and there she met a Farmer , Who did desire to know her name , and swore he would not harm her : But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain , She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . SHe told him she was kind and just , and ne'r would do no Evil , Her hand she in his Pocket thrust , which was indeed uncivil ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny Farthing . She told him then she was in haste , and so from him she parted , Who little thought to be disgrac'd , when she had him deserted ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny Farthing . But when the Reckoning came to pay , the Farmer missed his Money , O , then , quoth he , she's gone away , whom I call'd dear and Honey ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-halfpenny farthing . The Farmer he a Stranger was , and so at last they Stocks'd him , But this was not the worst , alas ! the wicked Jade had Pox'd him ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . She travel'd then to Bristol-Fair , and there she met a Barber , Though gaz'd upon her Beauty fair , love in his Breast did harbour ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four pence-half-penny farthing . The Barber was exceeding kind , and monstrously did praise her , But he did in conclusion find , that she had spoyl'd his Razor ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . She saw a Cobbler brisk and free , a sitting in his Stall too , With him she would Familiar be , while he was at his Awl too ; But she god money by't , she god money by't , she god money by'th bargain ; She god money by't , she god money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . Thus you may see some London Dams , that live about the City , By such like Tricks procure their shames , but 'tis the more the pity ; Yet they get money by't , they get money by't , they get money by'th bargain ; They get money by't , they get money by't , four-pence-half-penny farthing . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . 