Opportunity Lost , Or The Scotch Lover Defeated . Here Willy follows Peggy still But ner'e attains to have his will His slowness caus'd the hasty Maid To call a Miller to her aid : Who nimbler then her Lover seaz'd And straight her hasty passion eas'd . To a pleasant Northern tune . With Allowance . THere was a Lass in our Town Slay Willy Stenson He lov'd a Lass was bonny and brown It pretty Peggy Benson . Each morn as he gang'd to the field Slay Willy Stenson He wa'd some proof of kindness yield To plretty Peggy Benson . Her Beauty sea his heart had fier'd Slay Willy Stenson He could not tell what he desir'd Of pretty Peggy Benson . He followed her through Kirk and Kie Slay Willy Stenson , But guard not yet declare his weell To pretty Peggy Benson . But once upon a Summer day Slay Willy Stenson , He gang'd abroad a making hay with pretty Peggy Benson . He blithe and bonny was that day Slay Willy Stenson , Cause he might wanton in the hay with pretty Peggy Benson . Quo he , dict Lass i'de ligg thee down Slay Willy Stenson , And 'twon't for moiling thy green gown , my pretty Peggy Benson . The Lass reply'd it cost thee nought Slay Willy Stenson , Then ligg me down and spare me not Quo pretty Peggy Benson . Gad quo the Lad , i'm tell thee what Slay Willy Stenson , I'm ene gang heam , and fetch my Cleak for pretty Peggy Benson . He went heam , and came again Slay Willy Stenson , But he found a Miller on her wem O filthy Peggy Benson . He wished his Cleak had been ith fire Slay Willy Stenson , Sen he had lost his hearts desire And pretty Peggy Benson . She bade him come another day Slay Willy Stenson , She left him sad and trip away Oh naughty Peggy Benson . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-smithfield . Opportunity Lost , Or The Scotch Lover Defeated . Here Willy follows Peggy still But ner'e attains to have his will His slowness caus'd the hasty Maid To call a Miller to her aid : Who nimbler then her Lover seaz'd And straight her hasty passion eas'd . To a pleasant Northern tune . With Allowance . THere was a Lass in our Town Slay Willy Stenson He lov'd a Lass was bonny and brown It pretty Peggy Benson . Each morn as he gang'd to the field Slay Willy Stenson He wa'd some proof of kindness yield To plretty Peggy Benson . Her Beauty sea his heart had fier'd Slay Willy Stenson He could not tell what he desir'd Of pretty Peggy Benson . He followed her through Kirk and Kie Slay Willy Stenson , But guard not yet declare his weell To pretty Peggy Benson . But once upon a Summer day Slay Willy Stenson , He gang'd abroad a making hay with pretty Peggy Benson . He blithe and bonny was that day Slay Willy Stenson , Cause he might wanton in the hay with pretty Peggy Benson . Quo he , dict Lass i'de ligg thee down Slay Willy Stenson , And 'twon't for moiling thy green gown , my pretty Peggy Benson . The Lass reply'd it cost thee nought Slay Willy Stenson , Then ligg me down and spare me not Quo pretty Peggy Benson . Gad quo the Lad , i'm tell thee what Slay Willy Stenson , I'm ene gang heam , and fetch my Cleak for pretty Peggy Benson . He went heam , and came again Slay Willy Stenson , But he found a Miller on her wem O filthy Peggy Benson . He wished his Cleak had been ith fire Slay Willy Stenson , Sen he had lost his hearts desire And pretty Peggy Benson . She bade him come another day Slay Willy Stenson , She left him sad and trip away Oh naughty Peggy Benson . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-smithfield . 