The Lamentation of Englande : For the late Treasons conspired against the Queens Majesty and the whole Realm , by Franuces Throgmorton : who was executed for the same at Tyborne , on Friday being the tenth day of July last passed . 1584. To the tune of Weep , weep . Pray pray and praise the Lord , whose wondrous works are seen : That brought to light the secret snare , laid lately for our Queen . WIth brinish tears and sobbing sighs , I Englande pine in pain : To see and hear such secret Sects , among my people rain . Now being in my golden prime , where Nectar sweet does flow : And where the sacred word is taught , eke Christians joy to show . prey , pray , etc And where the Lord of Lords hath set , his Handmaid pure and clean : Anointing her my rightful Prince , to reign a royal Queen . Endued with wisdom from above , and stored with knowledge grea That flying Fame throughout the world , her praises does repeat . prey , pray , etc Who to the sacred word does stand , with zeal and godly mind : Maintaining truth , embracing faith , and to eke Subject kind . Alas why then my people deer , what is the cause you swerus Against the Lords anointed so , your own self wills to serve ? prey , pray , etc Have you not Peace and Plenty both , which other Realms do want ? Have you not worldly pleasures store , whereof there is no skant ? Have I not fostered you with food , which Nature brings forth ? Have I not fed you daintily , with Milk and Honey both ? prey , pray , etc And have not I a careful Prince , the prop of all your stay : Which loves me which cares for you , and prays for us eke day ? What is the cause such mischiefs then , among you do remain ? Truly the fullness of the flesh , which you so much obtain . prey , pray , etc It makes me weep with trickling tears , and wring my hands full cold : To hear , to see , and think upon , the dangers manifold , My loving Prince and Queen is in , by means of Satans crew : Which often does conspire the death , of her my Lover true . prey , pray , etc How many mischiefs are devised ? how many ways are wrought ? How many vild conspiracies , against her Grace is sought ? Yet God that rules in heaven above , looks down on earth below : Who daunts them in their wickedness , and does his power show . For when his highness does perceive , that dangers are at hand : Then does he show by secret means , those perils to withstand . And will not let his chosen flock , to perish on the earth : But does her secret foes confound , by means of shameful death . prey , pray , etc As late was seen by Arden he , and Sommervile also : Who did pretend to kill my Queen , and work her Subject's woe : But God who does her still defend , her Grace he did preserve : And wrought a shame unto themselves , as they did best deserve . Pray pray etc Throgmorton lately did conspire , to overthrow the State : That Strangers might invade the Realm upon and Evening late : And land in places where he knew , the Realm was something weak : The secret of which thing he did , to foreign Princes break . prey , pray , etc His dealing with the Queen of Scottes , by letters too and from : Informing her and other States , of all that he did know : What friends in England they should find , what power they should bring : Our Queen thereby for to displace , this was a woeful thing . prey , pray , etc He sought to dispossess my Queen , of dignity and Crown : And place a Stranger in her State , thereby to tread her down . Ireland and Scotland by advice , the enemy should invade : Then into England bring a power , as he the Plate had made . prey , pray , etc These were the treasons which he wrought my good Queen to displace : To spoil the state of all this Realm , such was his want of grace . But God who does protect me still , offended at the same : Even in his young and tender years , did cut him off with shame . prey , pray , etc O thou Throgmorton wicked wight , why didst thou this devise : Why did the fear of God and Prince , depart so from thy eyes ? No Rebels power shall her displace , God will defend her still : Her Subjects all will lose their lives , ere Traitors have their will . And though he flourished for a space , in seeking his inten When to the Pits brink that he came , God did his work preven And did preserve in spite of him , his chosen Vessel pure : That she might flourish still in peace , my comfort to procure . prey , pray , etc When as the servants of the Lord , I mean the Children three : Were put into the fiery Oven , destroyed for to be : Then fiery flames did them no harm , they sung and prayed with joy : And those which stood to work their woe , the sparkles did destroy . prey , pray , etc And when the Children of the Lord , King Pharao did pursue : To drown them in the foaming floods , God was a Captain true : The waves like walls stood on eke side , and they free passage found : And Pharao with his mighty Host , came after and was drowned . prey , pray , etc Even so the Lord by his great might , my comfort does maintain , In keeping and preserving still , my Prince from Traitors train . And did preserve her from the harms , Throgmorton did pretend : Who even at Tyborne for the same , did make a shameful end . prey , pray , etc And though such Imps do work her spite , ten thousande kind of ways : Yea though the devil him self do fite , to spoil her golden days : Yet if the Lord defend my wrong , their courage soon shall quail : So long as God stands on her side , no power shall prevail . prey , pray , etc Therefore my loving people deer , grant England her reques Pray to the Lord , him serve with fear . and Traitors hearts detest . Embrace the truth , lay hold on faith , walk in the path of peace : Obey your Prince , fight in her cause , and Englands wealth increase . Pray pray etc And with new warning take new hearts , old venomed minds detes Eschew all sin , increase good works , that you in peace may rest . From all old customs that are evil , put on the new man Chris And newly change your former lives , and learn to please the highest . FINIS . W.M. Imprinted at London , by Richard Jhones . The Lamentation of Englande : For the late Treasons conspired against the Queens Majesty and the whole Realm , by Franuces Throgmorton : who was executed for the same at Tyborne , on Friday being the tenth day of July last passed . 1584. To the tune of Weep , weep . Pray pray and praise the Lord , whose wondrous works are seen : That brought to light the secret snare , laid lately for our Queen . WIth brinish tears and sobbing sighs , I Englande pine in pain : To see and hear such secret Sects , among my people rain . Now being in my golden prime , where Nectar sweet does flow : And where the sacred word is taught , eke Christians joy to show . prey , pray , etc And where the Lord of Lords hath set , his Handmaid pure and clean : Anointing her my rightful Prince , to reign a royal Queen . Endued with wisdom from above , and stored with knowledge grea That flying Fame throughout the world , her praises does repeat . prey , pray , etc Who to the sacred word does stand , with zeal and godly mind : Maintaining truth , embracing faith , and to eke Subject kind . Alas why then my people deer , what is the cause you swerus Against the Lords anointed so , your own self wills to serve ? prey , pray , etc Have you not Peace and Plenty both , which other Realms do want ? Have you not worldly pleasures store , whereof there is no skant ? Have I not fostered you with food , which Nature brings forth ? Have I not fed you daintily , with Milk and Honey both ? prey , pray , etc And have not I a careful Prince , the prop of all your stay : Which loves me which cares for you , and prays for us eke day ? What is the cause such mischiefs then , among you do remain ? Truly the fullness of the flesh , which you so much obtain . prey , pray , etc It makes me weep with trickling tears , and wring my hands full cold : To hear , to see , and think upon , the dangers manifold , My loving Prince and Queen is in , by means of Satans crew : Which often does conspire the death , of her my Lover true . prey , pray , etc How many mischiefs are devised ? how many ways are wrought ? How many vild conspiracies , against her Grace is sought ? Yet God that rules in heaven above , looks down on earth below : Who daunts them in their wickedness , and does his power show . For when his highness does perceive , that dangers are at hand : Then does he show by secret means , those perils to withstand . And will not let his chosen flock , to perish on the earth : But does her secret foes confound , by means of shameful death . prey , pray , etc As late was seen by Arden he , and Sommervile also : Who did pretend to kill my Queen , and work her Subject's woe : But God who does her still defend , her Grace he did preserve : And wrought a shame unto themselves , as they did best deserve . Pray pray etc Throgmorton lately did conspire , to overthrow the State : That Strangers might invade the Realm upon and Evening late : And land in places where he knew , the Realm was something weak : The secret of which thing he did , to foreign Princes break . prey , pray , etc His dealing with the Queen of Scottes , by letters too and from : Informing her and other States , of all that he did know : What friends in England they should find , what power they should bring : Our Queen thereby for to displace , this was a woeful thing . prey , pray , etc He sought to dispossess my Queen , of dignity and Crown : And place a Stranger in her State , thereby to tread her down . Ireland and Scotland by advice , the enemy should invade : Then into England bring a power , as he the Plate had made . prey , pray , etc These were the treasons which he wrought my good Queen to displace : To spoil the state of all this Realm , such was his want of grace . But God who does protect me still , offended at the same : Even in his young and tender years , did cut him off with shame . prey , pray , etc O thou Throgmorton wicked wight , why didst thou this devise : Why did the fear of God and Prince , depart so from thy eyes ? No Rebels power shall her displace , God will defend her still : Her Subjects all will lose their lives , ere Traitors have their will . And though he flourished for a space , in seeking his inten When to the Pits brink that he came , God did his work preven And did preserve in spite of him , his chosen Vessel pure : That she might flourish still in peace , my comfort to procure . prey , pray , etc When as the servants of the Lord , I mean the Children three : Were put into the fiery Oven , destroyed for to be : Then fiery flames did them no harm , they sung and prayed with joy : And those which stood to work their woe , the sparkles did destroy . prey , pray , etc And when the Children of the Lord , King Pharao did pursue : To drown them in the foaming floods , God was a Captain true : The waves like walls stood on eke side , and they free passage found : And Pharao with his mighty Host , came after and was drowned . prey , pray , etc Even so the Lord by his great might , my comfort does maintain , In keeping and preserving still , my Prince from Traitors train . And did preserve her from the harms , Throgmorton did pretend : Who even at Tyborne for the same , did make a shameful end . prey , pray , etc And though such Imps do work her spite , ten thousande kind of ways : Yea though the devil him self do fite , to spoil her golden days : Yet if the Lord defend my wrong , their courage soon shall quail : So long as God stands on her side , no power shall prevail . prey , pray , etc Therefore my loving people deer , grant England her reques Pray to the Lord , him serve with fear . and Traitors hearts detest . Embrace the truth , lay hold on faith , walk in the path of peace : Obey your Prince , fight in her cause , and Englands wealth increase . Pray pray etc And with new warning take new hearts , old venomed minds detes Eschew all sin , increase good works , that you in peace may rest . From all old customs that are evil , put on the new man Chris And newly change your former lives , and learn to please the highest . FINIS . W.M. Imprinted at London , by Richard Jhones . 