The Suffolk Miracle , OR , A Relation of a Young Man , who , a Month after his Death , appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles in two hours time , and was never seen after but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My bleeding heart , etc A Wonder stranger ne'r was known then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell a Farmer rich and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , on whom he plac'd his chief delight , Her beauty was beyond compare she was both virtuous and fair . There was a young man living by , who was so charmed with her ape , That he could never be at rest , he was with love so much possessed , He made address to her , and she did grant him love immediately ; But when her Father came to here , he parted her and her poor dear . Forty miles distant was she sent unto his brother's with intent , That she should there so long remain till she had chang'd her mind again . Hereat this young man sadly griev'd but knew not how to be reliev'd , He sigh'd and sob'd continually that his true love he could not see . She by no means could to him send who was her hearts espoused friend , He sigh'd she griev'd but all in vain for she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctors art could give no ease unto his heart Who was so strangely terrified that in short time for love he dght SHe that from him was sent away , knew nothing of his dying day , But constant still she did remain to love the dead was then in vain . After he had in grave been laid a month or more unto this maid , He comes about middle of the night who joy'd to see her hearts delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew her mother's hood and safeguard too , He brought with him to testify her parents order he came by . Which when her uncle understood he hop't it would be for her good , And gave consent to her straight way , that with him she should come away . When she was god her love behind they pass'd as swift as any wind , That in two hours or little more he brought her to her Father's door . But as they did this great haste make he did complain his head did ache , Her Handcherchief she then took out and tied the same his head about . And unto him she thus did say thou art as cold as any clay , When we come home a fire wee'l have but little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's door and after she ne'r see him more , I'll set the Horse up then he said and there he set this harmless maid . She knocked and strait a man he cried whose there , 'tis I , she then replied , Who wondered much her voice to hear and was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father he did tell , and then he stare'd like and affrighted man . Down stairs he ran , and when he see her cry'd out my Child how cam'st thou here . prey Sir did you not send for me by such a messenger said she , Which made his hair stare on his head , as knowing well that he was dead . Where is he then to her he said he's in the stable quoth the maid , Go in said he and go to bed i'le see the horse well littered . He stare'd about and there could he no shape of any mankind see , But found his horse all on a sweat , which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing too nor no one else though well they knew , That he was dead a month before for fear of grieving her full soar . Her father to his Father went who was deceas'd , with this intent To tell him what his daughter said so both came back unto this maid . They ask'd her and she still did say it he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amaz'd and on each others strangely gaz'd . A Handcherchief she said she tied about his head and that they tried , The Sexton they did speak unto that he the grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold his body turning into mould , And though he had a month been dead this kerchief was about his head . This thing unto her then they told and the whole truth they unfold , She was thereat so terrified and griev'd she quickly after died . Part not true love you Rich men then , but if they be right honest men , Your daughters love give them their way , for force oft breeds their lives decay . Printed by and for A.M. , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge The Suffolk Miracle , OR , A Relation of a Young Man , who , a Month after his Death , appeared to his Sweetheart , and carried her behind him Forty Miles in two hours time , and was never seen after but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My bleeding heart , etc A Wonder stranger ne'r was known then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell a Farmer rich and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright , on whom he plac'd his chief delight , Her beauty was beyond compare she was both virtuous and fair . There was a young man living by , who was so charmed with her ape , That he could never be at rest , he was with love so much possessed , He made address to her , and she did grant him love immediately ; But when her Father came to here , he parted her and her poor dear . Forty miles distant was she sent unto his brother's with intent , That she should there so long remain till she had chang'd her mind again . Hereat this young man sadly griev'd but knew not how to be reliev'd , He sigh'd and sob'd continually that his true love he could not see . She by no means could to him send who was her hearts espoused friend , He sigh'd she griev'd but all in vain for she confin'd must still remain . He mourn'd so much that Doctors art could give no ease unto his heart Who was so strangely terrified that in short time for love he dght SHe that from him was sent away , knew nothing of his dying day , But constant still she did remain to love the dead was then in vain . After he had in grave been laid a month or more unto this maid , He comes about middle of the night who joy'd to see her hearts delight . Her Father's Horse which well she knew her mother's hood and safeguard too , He brought with him to testify her parents order he came by . Which when her uncle understood he hop't it would be for her good , And gave consent to her straight way , that with him she should come away . When she was god her love behind they pass'd as swift as any wind , That in two hours or little more he brought her to her Father's door . But as they did this great haste make he did complain his head did ache , Her Handcherchief she then took out and tied the same his head about . And unto him she thus did say thou art as cold as any clay , When we come home a fire wee'l have but little dream't he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's door and after she ne'r see him more , I'll set the Horse up then he said and there he set this harmless maid . She knocked and strait a man he cried whose there , 'tis I , she then replied , Who wondered much her voice to hear and was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father he did tell , and then he stare'd like and affrighted man . Down stairs he ran , and when he see her cry'd out my Child how cam'st thou here . prey Sir did you not send for me by such a messenger said she , Which made his hair stare on his head , as knowing well that he was dead . Where is he then to her he said he's in the stable quoth the maid , Go in said he and go to bed i'le see the horse well littered . He stare'd about and there could he no shape of any mankind see , But found his horse all on a sweat , which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing too nor no one else though well they knew , That he was dead a month before for fear of grieving her full soar . Her father to his Father went who was deceas'd , with this intent To tell him what his daughter said so both came back unto this maid . They ask'd her and she still did say it he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amaz'd and on each others strangely gaz'd . A Handcherchief she said she tied about his head and that they tried , The Sexton they did speak unto that he the grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold his body turning into mould , And though he had a month been dead this kerchief was about his head . This thing unto her then they told and the whole truth they unfold , She was thereat so terrified and griev'd she quickly after died . Part not true love you Rich men then , but if they be right honest men , Your daughters love give them their way , for force oft breeds their lives decay . Printed by and for A.M. , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge 