A Congratulatory Poem On the Sitting of the Great Convention In the Parliament House at Westminster , January 22. 1688 9. WISE Senators ! We much Congratulate Your happy Meeting , for to heal our State : Our State was Sick , it lay much i' th' Head , We look't upon ourselves as almost Dead , Had not our Israels Gideon came with speed , We could not now have said , Who did the Deed : But now the Tide is turn'd , the Trap they made , Did catch themselves , we are not now dismay'd . They now are frustrated in their Intention , That God hath Blessed us with a Wise Convention . Now Justice will run down , and Judgement meet , And Righteousness and Peace , they will them greet . May Halcion days of Joy , always attend Our Noble Senators , until their Lives do end . These days of Purim , Why should we be sad ? Though Haman must be Hang'd , Let us be Glad . The Voice o' th' Turtle now is herd i' th' Nation , Which makes the Popelings Mad with Consternation : The time of Singing Birds , it is now come , Be packing all you Papists , now for Room : There Plot , and Plot , and lay your Damn'd design As low as Hell , we'l find a Countermine : Call your Black Emissaries , let them go To those dark Cells , and dismal Vaults below ; Where Massacrees and Murders have their Birth , And Acted by the Devils Apes on Earth : Go , go , into your secret Cells , and Mourn Among the shady Groves , and silent Urns ; While our grave Patriots in Peace do Rest , In this our Land , with Joy and Plenty Blessed . Long may you live State Pillars , while you're here , 'Till Heaven removes you to a higher Sphere : And may your Names for ever be Enrol'd , 'Mongst Famous Worthies , when this Globe grows Old. Rest then ( Great Sirs ) in Health and Happiness , If we can say no more , we wish no less . ( Tho. Morley . London , Printed by W. Downing in Bartholomew-Close . A Congratulatory Poem On the Sitting of the Great Convention In the Parliament House at Westminster , January 22. 1688 9. WISE Senators ! We much Congratulate Your happy Meeting , for to heal our State : Our State was Sick , it lay much i' th' Head , We look't upon ourselves as almost Dead , Had not our Israels Gideon came with speed , We could not now have said , Who did the Deed : But now the Tide is turn'd , the Trap they made , Did catch themselves , we are not now dismay'd . They now are frustrated in their Intention , That God hath Blessed us with a Wise Convention . Now Justice will run down , and Judgement meet , And Righteousness and Peace , they will them greet . May Halcion days of Joy , always attend Our Noble Senators , until their Lives do end . These days of Purim , Why should we be sad ? Though Haman must be Hang'd , Let us be Glad . The Voice o' th' Turtle now is herd i' th' Nation , Which makes the Popelings Mad with Consternation : The time of Singing Birds , it is now come , Be packing all you Papists , now for Room : There Plot , and Plot , and lay your Damn'd design As low as Hell , we'l find a Countermine : Call your Black Emissaries , let them go To those dark Cells , and dismal Vaults below ; Where Massacrees and Murders have their Birth , And Acted by the Devils Apes on Earth : Go , go , into your secret Cells , and Mourn Among the shady Groves , and silent Urns ; While our grave Patriots in Peace do Rest , In this our Land , with Joy and Plenty Blessed . Long may you live State Pillars , while you're here , 'Till Heaven removes you to a higher Sphere : And may your Names for ever be Enrol'd , 'Mongst Famous Worthies , when this Globe grows Old. Rest then ( Great Sirs ) in Health and Happiness , If we can say no more , we wish no less . ( Tho. Morley . London , Printed by W. Downing in Bartholomew-Close . 