The Merry Milkmaids : OR , THE Country Damosels Pleasure in their Rural La - bours . Together with the Second Part , containing the Plow-man's Praise ; concluding with the London Gall - lants Prodigality . To the Tune of , The Milking-pail . you Nymphs and Silvian-Gods , That loves green fields and woods , when spring newly blown , herself does adorn With flowers and blooming buds ; come sing in the praise ( while flocks do graze In yonder pleasant vale ) of those that choose , their sleep to loose , and in cold dews , with clouted shoes , To carry the Milking-pail . The Goddess of the morn , With blushes they adorn , and take the fresh air , while Linnets prepare I consort on each green thorn ; the Blackbird and Thrush , on every bush , And the charming Nightingale , in merry vein , their throats do strain , to entertain the jolly train That carry the Milking-pail . When cold bleak winds do roar , And flowers can spring no more , the fields that were seen so pleasant and green , By winter all candid o're ; o , how the Town Lass looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale ! but it is not so with those that go through frost and snow , with cheeks that glow , To carry the Milking-pail . The Miss of courtly mould , Adorn'd with pearl and gold , with washes and paint , her skin does so taint , She's weather'd before she's old , while she in commode , puts on a cartload , And with cusheons plumps her tail ; what joys are found in russet-gown , young , plump , and round , and sweet , and found , That carry the Milking-pail ? The Girls of Venus game , That ventures health a fame , in practising feats , with colds and with heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame ; if Men were so wise to valve the prize Of the wares most fit for sale , what store of beaus , would daubt their clothes , to sare a nose , by following those That carry the Milking-pail . The country Lad is free , From fears and jealousy , when upon the green he is often seen With his Lass upon his knee , with kisses , most sweet , he does her so treat , And swears she'll ne'r grow stale ; while the London Lass , in e'ry place , with her brazen face , despises the grace Of those with the Milking-pail . The PLOWMAN's Answer . A Country life is sweet , In moderate cold and heat , to walk in the air , how pleasant and fair Is every field of wheat ; the Goddess of flowers , adorning the bowers , And every meadow now ; so that I say , no Courtier may compare with They , who cloath'd in grey , Do follow the painful Blow . They rise with the morning Lark , And labour till almost dark , then folding their sheep , they hasten to sleep , While every pleasant park , next morning is ringing , with Birds that are singing , On each green tender bough ; with what content , and merriement , their days are spent , whose minds are bent , To follow the painful Blow . Brisk country Lads repair To every wake and fair , with Sary and Sue , Nan , Bridget , and Prue , No manner of charge they spare , in seasons of leisure , thus taking their pleasure , Such liberty they allow : the rural Train , through snow and rain , trip o'er the plain , with speed again , To follow the painful Blow . But hectering Sparks at court , According to fame's report , are commonly foil'd , nay , ruin'd and spoil'd By following Venus sport ; but this way of sinning , it is the beginning Of doting on every Sow , who will not fail ( for mugs of ale ) to spread her tail ; 'gainst these we rail , Who follow the painful Blow . The Gallant he's sir'd and sir'd , By Jenny his pretty Bird , he calls her his Honey , supplies her with money , Till Frenchefi'd claps the word ; and then he runs swearing , nay , raving and taring , And cries , I am ruin'd now ; and what is worse , the Spark does curse his empty purse ; but 'tis not thus With any that drives the Blow . FINIS . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the And - gel , in Guiltspur-street , without New-gate . The Merry Milkmaids : OR , THE Country Damosels Pleasure in their Rural La - bours . Together with the Second Part , containing the Plow-man's Praise ; concluding with the London Gall - lants Prodigality . To the Tune of , The Milking-pail . you Nymphs and Silvian-Gods , That loves green fields and woods , when spring newly blown , herself does adorn With flowers and blooming buds ; come sing in the praise ( while flocks do graze In yonder pleasant vale ) of those that choose , their sleep to loose , and in cold dews , with clouted shoes , To carry the Milking-pail . The Goddess of the morn , With blushes they adorn , and take the fresh air , while Linnets prepare I consort on each green thorn ; the Blackbird and Thrush , on every bush , And the charming Nightingale , in merry vein , their throats do strain , to entertain the jolly train That carry the Milking-pail . When cold bleak winds do roar , And flowers can spring no more , the fields that were seen so pleasant and green , By winter all candid o're ; o , how the Town Lass looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale ! but it is not so with those that go through frost and snow , with cheeks that glow , To carry the Milking-pail . The Miss of courtly mould , Adorn'd with pearl and gold , with washes and paint , her skin does so taint , She's weather'd before she's old , while she in commode , puts on a cartload , And with cusheons plumps her tail ; what joys are found in russet-gown , young , plump , and round , and sweet , and found , That carry the Milking-pail ? The Girls of Venus game , That ventures health a fame , in practising feats , with colds and with heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame ; if Men were so wise to valve the prize Of the wares most fit for sale , what store of beaus , would daubt their clothes , to sare a nose , by following those That carry the Milking-pail . The country Lad is free , From fears and jealousy , when upon the green he is often seen With his Lass upon his knee , with kisses , most sweet , he does her so treat , And swears she'll ne'r grow stale ; while the London Lass , in e'ry place , with her brazen face , despises the grace Of those with the Milking-pail . The PLOWMAN's Answer . A Country life is sweet , In moderate cold and heat , to walk in the air , how pleasant and fair Is every field of wheat ; the Goddess of flowers , adorning the bowers , And every meadow now ; so that I say , no Courtier may compare with They , who cloath'd in grey , Do follow the painful Blow . They rise with the morning Lark , And labour till almost dark , then folding their sheep , they hasten to sleep , While every pleasant park , next morning is ringing , with Birds that are singing , On each green tender bough ; with what content , and merriement , their days are spent , whose minds are bent , To follow the painful Blow . Brisk country Lads repair To every wake and fair , with Sary and Sue , Nan , Bridget , and Prue , No manner of charge they spare , in seasons of leisure , thus taking their pleasure , Such liberty they allow : the rural Train , through snow and rain , trip o'er the plain , with speed again , To follow the painful Blow . But hectering Sparks at court , According to fame's report , are commonly foil'd , nay , ruin'd and spoil'd By following Venus sport ; but this way of sinning , it is the beginning Of doting on every Sow , who will not fail ( for mugs of ale ) to spread her tail ; 'gainst these we rail , Who follow the painful Blow . The Gallant he's sir'd and sir'd , By Jenny his pretty Bird , he calls her his Honey , supplies her with money , Till Frenchefi'd claps the word ; and then he runs swearing , nay , raving and taring , And cries , I am ruin'd now ; and what is worse , the Spark does curse his empty purse ; but 'tis not thus With any that drives the Blow . FINIS . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the And - gel , in Guiltspur-street , without New-gate . 