The DURHAM Garland . In FOUR PARTS . A Worthy lord , of vast estate . Who did in Durham dwell of late . But [ tO ] I will not declare his name , By reason of his birth and fame . But if you the truth would know , This lord he would a hunting go . He had indeed a noble train Of lords and knight and gentlemen . Unto fam'd Yorkshire he would ride , With all his gallants by his side . In hunting pass'd the time away ; But being weary , as they say . His lordship lost his noble train Of lords and knights , and gentlemen , And hearing not the horns to blow , He could not tell which way to go . But he did wander to and fro' , Being weary , likewise full of woe . At last dame Fortune was so kind That he the keeper's house did find . He went and knocked at the gate , And tho' it was so very late . The forester he let him in . And kindly entertained him But in the middle of the night , When as the stars did shine so bright , The lord was in a sad surprise , Being waked with a dismal noise . Then did he arise and call with speed , To know the reason then indeed . Of all that shrieking and that noise , Which did so much his soul surprise , I'm sorry , sir , the keeper said , That you should be so much afraid : But I hope that all will soon be well , My wife is into labour fell . This noble lord was learn'd and wise . And knew the planets of the skies . He saw and evil planet reign , So call'd the forester again . And gave him then to understand , He'd have the midwife hold her hand . But he was answer'd by the maid , Her mistress was delivered . At one o'clock that very morn , A lovely infant there was born . He was indeed a pretty boy , Which gave his parents much joy . This lord was gen'rous , kind and free , And proffer'd godfather to be . This good man thank'd him heartily , For his good will and courtesy . A parson was call'd for with speed , For to christen the child indeed . And after , as I do hear say , In joy and mirth they spent the day . This noble lord did presents gave , And all the servants did receive . They beg'd God would increase his store , For they had ne'er so much before . And likewise to the child he gave A noble present and a brave , It was a charming cabinet , That was with pearls and rubies set . Within it was a cabinet of gold , Your eyes would dazzle to behold ; A richer gift , as I may say , Has not been seen this many a day . He charg'd his father faithfully , That he himself should keep the key . Until the child could write and read , And then to give it him indeed . Pray do not open it at all , Whatever does to you befell . For it may do my god son good , If it be rightly understood , The second part I will unfold . As true as ever a tale was told ; Concerning of this lovely child , Who was obedient , sweet , and mild . PART II THIS child did take his learning so . If you [ tO ] he truth of this would know , At eleven years of age indeed He could both greek and latin read . But thinking of his cabinet , Which was with pearls and jewhls set , He ask'd his father for the key , The which he gave him speedily . His cabinet he did unlock , But he was in amazements struck When he the riches did behold , And also saw the chain of gold . But searching farther he did find A paper that disturb'd his mind ; Which was w [ i ] thin the cabinet , Ih greek and latin it was writ . My son , serve God that is so high , And pray to him incessantly : Obey your parents , serve the king , That nothing may your conscience sting . For seven years hence your fate will be To be hanged upon a tree : So pray to God both night and dsy To let that hour pass away . When he these rueful lines had read . He with a sighs did say Indeed If hanging be my destiny , My parents shall not see me die , For I will wander to and fro' , And go wither I do not know . But first I'll ask my parents leave , In view their blessings to receive , Then locking up the cabinet , He went unto his chamber strait ; And went unto his parents dear , Beseeching them with many a tear , That they would grant what he did crave : Your blessing first I beg to have . And hope you'll let me go my way , 'Twill do me good another day . For I indeed have made a vow , But most not tell the reason now . But if I live I will return When seven years are past and gone . Both man and wife did then reply , We fear , dear son , that thou wilt die ; If we should yield to let you go . Our aged hearts will burst [ wit ] h woe , Yet he entreated eagerly , So that they were forc'd to comply , And gave [ cons ] ent [ that ] he should go ; But where , alas ! they did not know . In thee thy [ r ] worser part you soon shall find That fortune to him was most kind ; For after many dangers past , He came to Durham at the last . PART III . HE went by chance as I herd say , Unto the house that very day , Whereat his godfather did dwell , Now mind what fortune him befell , This youth did crave a service there , And strait come out his godfather , And seeing him a handsome youth , He took him for his page in truth . In this same place he pleas'd so well , That above all he boar the bell , And he so well his lord did please , He made him higher by degrees , He made him butler indeed , And then chief steward with speed , Which made the other servants spite , And envy him both bay and night . He ne'er was false in all his trust , But proved ever true and just ; And to the Lord did hourly pray To guard him still hoth night and day , In this same place it does appear , He liv'd the space of seven year , And his parents he thought upon , And of his promise to return . Then humbly of his lord did crave , That he his free consent might have For to go and see his parents dear , W [ h ] om he had not seen for m [ a ] ny a year . So having leave away he went , No dreaming of the base intent , Which was contriv'd against him then , By wicked , false , malicious men . Who had in his portmanteau put Their noble lord's fine golden cup ; And when the lord at dinner was , He miss'd the cup as it came to pass . Where should it be , the lord did say ; We had it here but yesterday . The butler then reply'd with speed , If you will know the truth indeed ; Your faithful steward that is gone , With feather'd nest away is flown ; I do believe he has that and more , Which does belong unto your store . No , said the lord , that cannot be , For I have try'd his honesty . Then , said the cook , my lord , I'll die Upon a tree that's nine feet high . But hearing what this man did say , Did send a messenger that day . To take him with a hue and cry . And bring him back immediately . They search'd his portmanteau indeed . In which they found the cup with speed . Then he was struck with sad surprise , And scarcely could believe his eyes . The lord then said unto him strait , You shall be hang'd before my gate . Because in you I put my trust , And I took you for nought but just . PART IV. THE day was fix'd , and being come . Said he , Oh Lord ! it was my doom , Tho' innocent I do declare How my lord's cup came to be there . What fate decrees none can deny . I was adjudged thus to die Upon a fatal gallows tree . Which my godfather did foresee . In traveling pains my mother was , Into the world I came at last , A gentleman with skill did show Such death I now am coming to ; A chain and cabinet he gave Unto my father , which I have ; The manuscript that was therein , Did show me plain I should be hang'd , So the lord hearing him say so , It come into his mind then to Keep him from off the gallows high , For I think this man is not guilty . Something I doubt there is in this . Methinks it is but mere malice . Of the cook and the butler too . And if so I'll make them rue , The cause he tries a second time , And found them guilty of the crime . They were adjudg'd to be hang'd strai Indeed they did deserve their fate . The lord he took him , and did say , Have you that cabinet I pray ? Yes , noble lord , this is the same Was left me , with this very chain . My daughter is a virgin bright , You shall have her this very night ; Wherefore now take delight in her , 'Tis I who am your godfather . Here's twenty thousand pounds in gold , And when I'm dead it shall be told You shall enjoy my whole estate , For to make you both rich and great . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The DURHAM Garland . In FOUR PARTS . A Worthy lord , of vast estate . Who did in Durham dwell of late . But [ tO ] I will not declare his name , By reason of his birth and fame . But if you the truth would know , This lord he would a hunting go . He had indeed a noble train Of lords and knight and gentlemen . Unto fam'd Yorkshire he would ride , With all his gallants by his side . In hunting pass'd the time away ; But being weary , as they say . His lordship lost his noble train Of lords and knights , and gentlemen , And hearing not the horns to blow , He could not tell which way to go . But he did wander to and fro' , Being weary , likewise full of woe . At last dame Fortune was so kind That he the keeper's house did find . He went and knocked at the gate , And tho' it was so very late . The forester he let him in . And kindly entertained him But in the middle of the night , When as the stars did shine so bright , The lord was in a sad surprise , Being waked with a dismal noise . Then did he arise and call with speed , To know the reason then indeed . Of all that shrieking and that noise , Which did so much his soul surprise , I'm sorry , sir , the keeper said , That you should be so much afraid : But I hope that all will soon be well , My wife is into labour fell . This noble lord was learn'd and wise . And knew the planets of the skies . He saw and evil planet reign , So call'd the forester again . And gave him then to understand , He'd have the midwife hold her hand . But he was answer'd by the maid , Her mistress was delivered . At one o'clock that very morn , A lovely infant there was born . He was indeed a pretty boy , Which gave his parents much joy . This lord was gen'rous , kind and free , And proffer'd godfather to be . This good man thank'd him heartily , For his good will and courtesy . A parson was call'd for with speed , For to christen the child indeed . And after , as I do hear say , In joy and mirth they spent the day . This noble lord did presents gave , And all the servants did receive . They beg'd God would increase his store , For they had ne'er so much before . And likewise to the child he gave A noble present and a brave , It was a charming cabinet , That was with pearls and rubies set . Within it was a cabinet of gold , Your eyes would dazzle to behold ; A richer gift , as I may say , Has not been seen this many a day . He charg'd his father faithfully , That he himself should keep the key . Until the child could write and read , And then to give it him indeed . Pray do not open it at all , Whatever does to you befell . For it may do my god son good , If it be rightly understood , The second part I will unfold . As true as ever a tale was told ; Concerning of this lovely child , Who was obedient , sweet , and mild . PART II THIS child did take his learning so . If you [ tO ] he truth of this would know , At eleven years of age indeed He could both greek and latin read . But thinking of his cabinet , Which was with pearls and jewhls set , He ask'd his father for the key , The which he gave him speedily . His cabinet he did unlock , But he was in amazements struck When he the riches did behold , And also saw the chain of gold . But searching farther he did find A paper that disturb'd his mind ; Which was w [ i ] thin the cabinet , Ih greek and latin it was writ . My son , serve God that is so high , And pray to him incessantly : Obey your parents , serve the king , That nothing may your conscience sting . For seven years hence your fate will be To be hanged upon a tree : So pray to God both night and dsy To let that hour pass away . When he these rueful lines had read . He with a sighs did say Indeed If hanging be my destiny , My parents shall not see me die , For I will wander to and fro' , And go wither I do not know . But first I'll ask my parents leave , In view their blessings to receive , Then locking up the cabinet , He went unto his chamber strait ; And went unto his parents dear , Beseeching them with many a tear , That they would grant what he did crave : Your blessing first I beg to have . And hope you'll let me go my way , 'Twill do me good another day . For I indeed have made a vow , But most not tell the reason now . But if I live I will return When seven years are past and gone . Both man and wife did then reply , We fear , dear son , that thou wilt die ; If we should yield to let you go . Our aged hearts will burst [ wit ] h woe , Yet he entreated eagerly , So that they were forc'd to comply , And gave [ cons ] ent [ that ] he should go ; But where , alas ! they did not know . In thee thy [ r ] worser part you soon shall find That fortune to him was most kind ; For after many dangers past , He came to Durham at the last . PART III . HE went by chance as I herd say , Unto the house that very day , Whereat his godfather did dwell , Now mind what fortune him befell , This youth did crave a service there , And strait come out his godfather , And seeing him a handsome youth , He took him for his page in truth . In this same place he pleas'd so well , That above all he boar the bell , And he so well his lord did please , He made him higher by degrees , He made him butler indeed , And then chief steward with speed , Which made the other servants spite , And envy him both bay and night . He ne'er was false in all his trust , But proved ever true and just ; And to the Lord did hourly pray To guard him still hoth night and day , In this same place it does appear , He liv'd the space of seven year , And his parents he thought upon , And of his promise to return . Then humbly of his lord did crave , That he his free consent might have For to go and see his parents dear , W [ h ] om he had not seen for m [ a ] ny a year . So having leave away he went , No dreaming of the base intent , Which was contriv'd against him then , By wicked , false , malicious men . Who had in his portmanteau put Their noble lord's fine golden cup ; And when the lord at dinner was , He miss'd the cup as it came to pass . Where should it be , the lord did say ; We had it here but yesterday . The butler then reply'd with speed , If you will know the truth indeed ; Your faithful steward that is gone , With feather'd nest away is flown ; I do believe he has that and more , Which does belong unto your store . No , said the lord , that cannot be , For I have try'd his honesty . Then , said the cook , my lord , I'll die Upon a tree that's nine feet high . But hearing what this man did say , Did send a messenger that day . To take him with a hue and cry . And bring him back immediately . They search'd his portmanteau indeed . In which they found the cup with speed . Then he was struck with sad surprise , And scarcely could believe his eyes . The lord then said unto him strait , You shall be hang'd before my gate . Because in you I put my trust , And I took you for nought but just . PART IV. THE day was fix'd , and being come . Said he , Oh Lord ! it was my doom , Tho' innocent I do declare How my lord's cup came to be there . What fate decrees none can deny . I was adjudged thus to die Upon a fatal gallows tree . Which my godfather did foresee . In traveling pains my mother was , Into the world I came at last , A gentleman with skill did show Such death I now am coming to ; A chain and cabinet he gave Unto my father , which I have ; The manuscript that was therein , Did show me plain I should be hang'd , So the lord hearing him say so , It come into his mind then to Keep him from off the gallows high , For I think this man is not guilty . Something I doubt there is in this . Methinks it is but mere malice . Of the cook and the butler too . And if so I'll make them rue , The cause he tries a second time , And found them guilty of the crime . They were adjudg'd to be hang'd strai Indeed they did deserve their fate . The lord he took him , and did say , Have you that cabinet I pray ? Yes , noble lord , this is the same Was left me , with this very chain . My daughter is a virgin bright , You shall have her this very night ; Wherefore now take delight in her , 'Tis I who am your godfather . Here's twenty thousand pounds in gold , And when I'm dead it shall be told You shall enjoy my whole estate , For to make you both rich and great . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 