The Quakers Ballad : OR , And Hymn of Triumph and Exultation for their Victories , at the two late great Disputes by them held with the Baptists ; the first in Barbican , on the 9th . the second in Wheeler-street , on the 16th . of the Eight Month , 1674. To and excellent new Tune , called , The Zealous Atheist . you she-friends and he-friends whoever inherit Infallible light in dark-lanthorn of Spirit , Come prick up your ears , for behold ! I will fit you with and Hymn that is cal'd by the wicked , a Ditty In the Scuffle we late have had with the Baptists Wherein both our honour and interest wrapped is , Though our logic perhaps be too weak to dispute um We hope by a Ballad at least to confute um . For though Fiddle & Organs are both Babilonish Where with the profane delighted alone is ; Yet in such a case inspiration may haunt Even us which are perfect to warble a Chaunt . Then let us a while our tremblings lay by , And quit our still Meetings to set up a cry , Lets challenge , and rant , talk loud and be bold , For the Spirit at present does move us to scold . 'Tis time to exclaim , as receiving the wrong , And take up that carnal weapon the tongue , For if we delay our whole party must sink , And our long-boasted light go out in a stink . Our jugglings so plain will appear that each eye , Through the mask of our holy pretences will spy , And see that a Quaker , when stripped of his paint , Is nearer of kin to and Atheist , than Saint . Then let us equivocate neatly and lay A plausible meaning on all that we say , And the very same art that serves to excuse us , At once shall condemn all those that accuse us . This being done , we point time and place , And come full prepared to bandy the case , In the Barbican first we gave them a meeting , And never was seen such a Bear-garden greeting A Rabble thrust in from each end of the Town , And before half and agreement could be laid down In less time than a man can a pot of Ale swallow , 'twas confirm'd with a hoop , & deny'd with a hallow The place like and Hothouse appear'd , and by hap Some Friends might be cured here of a clap ; And if it were so I cannot but say , It the best effect of our meeting that day . The second part , to the same Tune . BUt once more have at um , for without doubt If we cannot confute , we must tyre them out & therefore sent word they were cowardly lubbars , If they would not in Spittle-fields venture a rubbers Four hours and more we dispute in and out , To know what it was we should dispute about , Which yet at the last was never agreed , But no matter for that we resolv'd to proceed . 'Twould have made puss laugh , or child in the cri-somes , To hear us chop logic , and talk sylogismes , That spiritual cantings of Nailor and s brood , Should Apostatise thus into figure and mood . To see holy seed so grand a designer , As to turn yea and nay into major and minor , Use language of beast Concedo or Pergo , And tickle their tobies at last with and Ergo. At first they came on like huffing Philistians , And needs would attempt to prove us no Christians When most by our wranglings , already thought much To believe that in truth either of us were such . All Dialogues we cry'd down as profane , Though diverse of us had written in that strain ; But that by a figure must be understood , Making things bad in others , in us to be good . But let friends take notice how basely they wrong us By suggesting a Papist God bless us , among us ; For there was no need of that I must tell you , Since each of us carries his Pope in his belly . Our selves to be Christians we loudly declare , But avoid thee contest to prove that we were ; For we find that our interest does better agree , To be counted Christians , than truly to be . Yet inveigled at last by a kind of a wile , We were drawn into what we had shun'd all this while ; But still we were safe , though shrewdly put to 't , For when all shifts fail inspiration can do 't . To this then we fly though certain it be , Old Mahomet had as much claim to 't as we ; However it serves to ward off a blow , For who shall refute what no man can know . For if folks would have wonders or miracles done We confess we can instance at present but one , That so many should Scripture and reason forsake And in our ridiculous whimsies partake . but though in good from we would argue no more We went on with bawling as high as before , For we knew that the crowd would the glory afford To him that spoke loudest , and had the last word . To prove that we did our Antagonist beatrice , 'Tis enough for to say that we made them retreat And charged them bravely when we had done , In the Rear with and echo , they run friends , they run . And to show that our Ammunition of Lungs , Was yet not all spent , nor weary our tongues , After this we began another new quoil , And fell all a Preaching in Rank and in File . Thus in brief a strange clutter we kept , and a stir But what good came on 't , if I know I'm a cur , Only people went home , some sick , and some lame , But all of them just as wise as they came . London , Printed for James Naylor . The Quakers Ballad : OR , And Hymn of Triumph and Exultation for their Victories , at the two late great Disputes by them held with the Baptists ; the first in Barbican , on the 9th . the second in Wheeler-street , on the 16th . of the Eight Month , 1674. To and excellent new Tune , called , The Zealous Atheist . you she-friends and he-friends whoever inherit Infallible light in dark-lanthorn of Spirit , Come prick up your ears , for behold ! I will fit you with and Hymn that is cal'd by the wicked , a Ditty In the Scuffle we late have had with the Baptists Wherein both our honour and interest wrapped is , Though our logic perhaps be too weak to dispute um We hope by a Ballad at least to confute um . For though Fiddle & Organs are both Babilonish Where with the profane delighted alone is ; Yet in such a case inspiration may haunt Even us which are perfect to warble a Chaunt . Then let us a while our tremblings lay by , And quit our still Meetings to set up a cry , Lets challenge , and rant , talk loud and be bold , For the Spirit at present does move us to scold . 'Tis time to exclaim , as receiving the wrong , And take up that carnal weapon the tongue , For if we delay our whole party must sink , And our long-boasted light go out in a stink . Our jugglings so plain will appear that each eye , Through the mask of our holy pretences will spy , And see that a Quaker , when stripped of his paint , Is nearer of kin to and Atheist , than Saint . Then let us equivocate neatly and lay A plausible meaning on all that we say , And the very same art that serves to excuse us , At once shall condemn all those that accuse us . This being done , we point time and place , And come full prepared to bandy the case , In the Barbican first we gave them a meeting , And never was seen such a Bear-garden greeting A Rabble thrust in from each end of the Town , And before half and agreement could be laid down In less time than a man can a pot of Ale swallow , 'twas confirm'd with a hoop , & deny'd with a hallow The place like and Hothouse appear'd , and by hap Some Friends might be cured here of a clap ; And if it were so I cannot but say , It the best effect of our meeting that day . The second part , to the same Tune . BUt once more have at um , for without doubt If we cannot confute , we must tyre them out & therefore sent word they were cowardly lubbars , If they would not in Spittle-fields venture a rubbers Four hours and more we dispute in and out , To know what it was we should dispute about , Which yet at the last was never agreed , But no matter for that we resolv'd to proceed . 'Twould have made puss laugh , or child in the cri-somes , To hear us chop logic , and talk sylogismes , That spiritual cantings of Nailor and s brood , Should Apostatise thus into figure and mood . To see holy seed so grand a designer , As to turn yea and nay into major and minor , Use language of beast Concedo or Pergo , And tickle their tobies at last with and Ergo. At first they came on like huffing Philistians , And needs would attempt to prove us no Christians When most by our wranglings , already thought much To believe that in truth either of us were such . All Dialogues we cry'd down as profane , Though diverse of us had written in that strain ; But that by a figure must be understood , Making things bad in others , in us to be good . But let friends take notice how basely they wrong us By suggesting a Papist God bless us , among us ; For there was no need of that I must tell you , Since each of us carries his Pope in his belly . Our selves to be Christians we loudly declare , But avoid thee contest to prove that we were ; For we find that our interest does better agree , To be counted Christians , than truly to be . Yet inveigled at last by a kind of a wile , We were drawn into what we had shun'd all this while ; But still we were safe , though shrewdly put to 't , For when all shifts fail inspiration can do 't . To this then we fly though certain it be , Old Mahomet had as much claim to 't as we ; However it serves to ward off a blow , For who shall refute what no man can know . For if folks would have wonders or miracles done We confess we can instance at present but one , That so many should Scripture and reason forsake And in our ridiculous whimsies partake . but though in good from we would argue no more We went on with bawling as high as before , For we knew that the crowd would the glory afford To him that spoke loudest , and had the last word . To prove that we did our Antagonist beatrice , 'Tis enough for to say that we made them retreat And charged them bravely when we had done , In the Rear with and echo , they run friends , they run . And to show that our Ammunition of Lungs , Was yet not all spent , nor weary our tongues , After this we began another new quoil , And fell all a Preaching in Rank and in File . Thus in brief a strange clutter we kept , and a stir But what good came on 't , if I know I'm a cur , Only people went home , some sick , and some lame , But all of them just as wise as they came . London , Printed for James Naylor . 