April Horse RACE : OR , THE Prodigal BAKER , Beaten in a Horse Raze on the Twelfth of April , he having lay'd Four hun - dreaded Guineas to Seventeen , which Wager he lost , to the laughing Satis - faction of the People . The Tune , Oh brave Popery . YOu Bakers now do you not hear the sad news , How one of your Brother's has happen'd to loose A Raze , which does cause him to fret , grieve and muse : Oh poor Baker now , sorrowful Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . This Baker god well by the Bred that he sold , Who could lay four hundred Guineas in gold , Against seventeen ; you'd say he was bold : Oh poor Baker now , prodigal Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . The Wager was laid on and old scrubbed Horse , By which he sustained this terrible loss ; His Guineas are gone without any remorse : Oh! the Baker now , sorrowful Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . It seems he was prodigal , eager and hight , And since he has met with so fatal a lot , 'Twas well if the Money was honestly go Oh! the Baker now , prodigal Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . Betimes in the Morning the Raze was begun , From Shoreditch to aware the old Horse was to run , And then back again ; it was instantly done : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc The like of this Wager sure never was seen , Full four hundred Guineas against seventeen , The Baker he ventur'd ; now , what did he mean : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc This Horse he was loaded with many long Years , But ah ! how he pranced and prick'd up his Ears , In order , to pay off the Baker's Arrears : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc We need not to grieve if his loss had been more , For Bakers this Winter has punished the Poor , By raising their Bred , to replenish their store : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc We make no great question but some of the rest , By whom all the Winter the Poor was oppressed ; May , by their own follies , bewray their own Nest ; Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc The Gold which he has so unluckily lay'd , And lost , if it had been lay'd out of Trade ; Some Millions of halfpenny Rowls would have made Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc The Bakers of late merry lives they have led , Who rolled in Money by raising of Bred , But this among many is worthily spread : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc I hope he now has enough of a Raze , Since there is few or none now that pities his case , But e'ry one fliggers and laughs in his Face : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc Since he has more Money than many of us , And therefore the Baker was proud of his Purse , Or else he would never have ventured thus : Oh! the Baker now , prodigal Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . This Money it might have been better imploy'd , Then thus to be lost in a Galloping ride ; But what shall we say , it may pull down his pride : Oh! the Baker now , Meal-men and Bakers now , Never lay Wagers like him . London : Printed for J. Murrey , at the Unicorn in Leather-lane . April Horse RACE : OR , THE Prodigal BAKER , Beaten in a Horse Raze on the Twelfth of April , he having lay'd Four hun - dreaded Guineas to Seventeen , which Wager he lost , to the laughing Satis - faction of the People . The Tune , Oh brave Popery . YOu Bakers now do you not hear the sad news , How one of your Brother's has happen'd to loose A Raze , which does cause him to fret , grieve and muse : Oh poor Baker now , sorrowful Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . This Baker god well by the Bred that he sold , Who could lay four hundred Guineas in gold , Against seventeen ; you'd say he was bold : Oh poor Baker now , prodigal Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . The Wager was laid on and old scrubbed Horse , By which he sustained this terrible loss ; His Guineas are gone without any remorse : Oh! the Baker now , sorrowful Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . It seems he was prodigal , eager and hight , And since he has met with so fatal a lot , 'Twas well if the Money was honestly go Oh! the Baker now , prodigal Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . Betimes in the Morning the Raze was begun , From Shoreditch to aware the old Horse was to run , And then back again ; it was instantly done : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc The like of this Wager sure never was seen , Full four hundred Guineas against seventeen , The Baker he ventur'd ; now , what did he mean : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc This Horse he was loaded with many long Years , But ah ! how he pranced and prick'd up his Ears , In order , to pay off the Baker's Arrears : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc We need not to grieve if his loss had been more , For Bakers this Winter has punished the Poor , By raising their Bred , to replenish their store : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc We make no great question but some of the rest , By whom all the Winter the Poor was oppressed ; May , by their own follies , bewray their own Nest ; Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc The Gold which he has so unluckily lay'd , And lost , if it had been lay'd out of Trade ; Some Millions of halfpenny Rowls would have made Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc The Bakers of late merry lives they have led , Who rolled in Money by raising of Bred , But this among many is worthily spread : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc I hope he now has enough of a Raze , Since there is few or none now that pities his case , But e'ry one fliggers and laughs in his Face : Oh! the Baker now , etc Four hundred , etc Since he has more Money than many of us , And therefore the Baker was proud of his Purse , Or else he would never have ventured thus : Oh! the Baker now , prodigal Baker now , Four hundred Guineas has lost . This Money it might have been better imploy'd , Then thus to be lost in a Galloping ride ; But what shall we say , it may pull down his pride : Oh! the Baker now , Meal-men and Bakers now , Never lay Wagers like him . London : Printed for J. Murrey , at the Unicorn in Leather-lane . 