The South Sea Whim . To the TUNE of To you Fair Ladies now at Land , etc 1. TO you fair Traders now a Shore , We South Sea Cullies write , Your kind Compassion to implore , This Ditty we indite ; Pity your Brothers on the Main , Compell'd to change our Course in vain . With a fa , la , etc 2. We are a wretched Motly Crew , More various than the Weather , Made up of Debtors Old , and New , Jumbled and tack'd together ; Tars , Soldiers , Merchant's , Transports , Tallies , Chain'd in a row like Slaves in Galleys . With a fa , la , etc 3. We furnish'd Beer , We Guns and Balls , We Ships , or Money Lent , With Hemp enough to serve them all , Oh , may it so be spent ! And since his Payments are so few , Give Caesar what is Caesar's Due . With a fa , la , etc 4. To fetch the Navy Pitch and Tar , We passed the Stormy Found ; But now our Debts postpon'd so far , We must take t'other Round , And e'er we have our own again , Must shoot the Straights of Magellan . With a fa , la , etc 5. And we poor Graziers of the Plain , Who serv'd them Pork and Beef , Must take hard Words instead of Gain , And Charters for Relief ; For Found good Meat without a Hogo , They give us Bills on Terr' del Fuego . With a fa , la , etc 6. We honest Tars , that oft come Home Without and Arm or Leg , Must hope no more for Trulls , or Rum , But be content to beg : Our Wages stop'd without Account , The Crew is all turn'd o'er to Blunt . With a fa , la , etc 7. Two Scurvy Letters R , and Q Did long the Sea infest , Made some dispute and prove their Endue , But still they paid the rest . This sweeping Torrent none can Stem , We're run aground on Oh , and M. With a fa , la , etc 8. But come , my Lads , together stand , Let's suffer this no more : Shall we that on the Seas command , Be Bully'd thus a Shore ? No , no , my Boys , pull th' Helm a-Lee , And Heave the Rogues into the Sea. With a fa , la , etc Printed in the Year MDCCXI . The South Sea Whim . To the TUNE of To you Fair Ladies now at Land , etc 1. TO you fair Traders now a Shore , We South Sea Cullies write , Your kind Compassion to implore , This Ditty we indite ; Pity your Brothers on the Main , Compell'd to change our Course in vain . With a fa , la , etc 2. We are a wretched Motly Crew , More various than the Weather , Made up of Debtors Old , and New , Jumbled and tack'd together ; Tars , Soldiers , Merchant's , Transports , Tallies , Chain'd in a row like Slaves in Galleys . With a fa , la , etc 3. We furnish'd Beer , We Guns and Balls , We Ships , or Money Lent , With Hemp enough to serve them all , Oh , may it so be spent ! And since his Payments are so few , Give Caesar what is Caesar's Due . With a fa , la , etc 4. To fetch the Navy Pitch and Tar , We passed the Stormy Found ; But now our Debts postpon'd so far , We must take t'other Round , And e'er we have our own again , Must shoot the Straights of Magellan . With a fa , la , etc 5. And we poor Graziers of the Plain , Who serv'd them Pork and Beef , Must take hard Words instead of Gain , And Charters for Relief ; For Found good Meat without a Hogo , They give us Bills on Terr' del Fuego . With a fa , la , etc 6. We honest Tars , that oft come Home Without and Arm or Leg , Must hope no more for Trulls , or Rum , But be content to beg : Our Wages stop'd without Account , The Crew is all turn'd o'er to Blunt . With a fa , la , etc 7. Two Scurvy Letters R , and Q Did long the Sea infest , Made some dispute and prove their Endue , But still they paid the rest . This sweeping Torrent none can Stem , We're run aground on Oh , and M. With a fa , la , etc 8. But come , my Lads , together stand , Let's suffer this no more : Shall we that on the Seas command , Be Bully'd thus a Shore ? No , no , my Boys , pull th' Helm a-Lee , And Heave the Rogues into the Sea. With a fa , la , etc Printed in the Year MDCCXI . The South Sea Whim . To the TUNE of To you Fair Ladies now at Land , etc 1. TO you fair Traders now a Shore , We South Sea Cullies write , Your kind Compassion to implore , This Ditty we indite ; Pity your Brothers on the Main , Compell'd to change our Course in vain . With a fa , la , etc 2. We are a wretched Motly Crew , More various than the Weather , Made up of Debtors Old , and New , Jumbled and tack'd together ; Tars , Soldiers , Merchant's , Transports , Tallies , Chain'd in a row like Slaves in Galleys . With a fa , la , etc 3. We furnish'd Beer , We Guns and Balls , We Ships , or Money Lent , With Hemp enough to serve them all , Oh , may it so be spent ! And since his Payments are so few , Give Caesar what is Caesar's Due . With a fa , la , etc 4. To fetch the Navy Pitch and Tar , We passed the Stormy Found ; But now our Debts postpon'd so far , We must take t'other Round , And e'er we have our own again , Must shoot the Straights of Magellan . With a fa , la , etc 5. And we poor Graziers of the Plain , Who serv'd them Pork and Beef , Must take hard Words instead of Gain , And Charters for Relief ; For Found good Meat without a Hogo , They give us Bills on Terr' del Fuego . With a fa , la , etc 6. We honest Tars , that oft come Home Without and Arm or Leg , Must hope no more for Trulls , or Rum , But be content to beg : Our Wages stop'd without Account , The Crew is all turn'd o'er to Blunt . With a fa , la , etc 7. Two Scurvy Letters R , and Q Did long the Sea infest , Made some dispute and prove their Endue , But still they paid the rest . This sweeping Torrent none can Stem , We're run aground on Oh , and M. With a fa , la , etc 8. But come , my Lads , together stand , Let's suffer this no more : Shall we that on the Seas command , Be Bully'd thus a Shore ? No , no , my Boys , pull th' Helm a-Lee , And Heave the Rogues into the Sea. With a fa , la , etc Printed in the Year MDCCXI . The South Sea Whim . To the TUNE of To you Fair Ladies now at Land , etc 1. TO you fair Traders now a Shore , We South Sea Cullies write , Your kind Compassion to implore , This Ditty we indite ; Pity your Brothers on the Main , Compell'd to change our Course in vain . With a fa , la , etc 2. We are a wretched Motly Crew , More various than the Weather , Made up of Debtors Old , and New , Jumbled and tack'd together ; Tars , Soldiers , Merchant's , Transports , Tallies , Chain'd in a row like Slaves in Galleys . With a fa , la , etc 3. We furnish'd Beer , We Guns and Balls , We Ships , or Money Lent , With Hemp enough to serve them all , Oh , may it so be spent ! And since his Payments are so few , Give Caesar what is Caesar's Due . With a fa , la , etc 4. To fetch the Navy Pitch and Tar , We passed the Stormy Found ; But now our Debts postpon'd so far , We must take t'other Round , And e'er we have our own again , Must shoot the Straights of Magellan . With a fa , la , etc 5. And we poor Graziers of the Plain , Who serv'd them Pork and Beef , Must take hard Words instead of Gain , And Charters for Relief ; For Found good Meat without a Hogo , They give us Bills on Terr' del Fuego . With a fa , la , etc 6. We honest Tars , that oft come Home Without and Arm or Leg , Must hope no more for Trulls , or Rum , But be content to beg : Our Wages stop'd without Account , The Crew is all turn'd o'er to Blunt . With a fa , la , etc 7. Two Scurvy Letters R , and Q Did long the Sea infest , Made some dispute and prove their Endue , But still they paid the rest . This sweeping Torrent none can Stem , We're run aground on Oh , and M. With a fa , la , etc 8. But come , my Lads , together stand , Let's suffer this no more : Shall we that on the Seas command , Be Bully'd thus a Shore ? No , no , my Boys , pull th' Helm a-Lee , And Heave the Rogues into the Sea. With a fa , la , etc Printed in the Year MDCCXI . 