And Excellent Ballad , entitled , The Constancy of SUSANNA . To and Excellent New Tune . THere was a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame , He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna was she call'd by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should not we of her learn thus , to live Godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story you may read , was well brought up in Moses Law . Her Parents they were Godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should not we then talk of this Lady : That year two Judges there were made which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade , who was Susanna's Husband then : Joachim was a great Rich man . Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady . Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , herself did daily there solace : And that these Elders soon espy'd , Lady , Lady , And privately themselves did hide , for that Lady . Her chaste and constant life was try'd , by these Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espy'd , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone herself did wash her fair body . The Elders came to her anon , & thus they said , fair Maid good speed The doors are fast , the Maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed : For we are Men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady . If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how can'st thou then avoid this thing ? Therefore consent and to us turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said alas ! now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do not , Lady , Lady , It is my death right well I wot , Oh true Lady . Better it were for me to fallen into your hands , and be guiltless , Then that I should consent at all , to this your shameful wickedness : And even with that ( where as she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cry'd aloud , pitifully . THese Elders does likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cry'd , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they thought to hide , Unto her friends they then her brought , Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life was sought of that Lady . On the morrow she was brought forth , before the people for to stand , That they might hear & know the truth , how these two Elders Susanna found , The Elders swore and thus did say , Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with this Lady . Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna causeless she must die , These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify : Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susanna's friends that stood by her , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go , Then unto him that is so just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him they cry . The Lord her voice herd , and beheld the Daughters cry of Israel , His Spirit he raised in a Child , whose name was call'd young Daniel : Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady . Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then ? in Judgement you have not done well Nor yet the right way have you gone , to Judge the Daughter of Israel : By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to Judgement turn again , for that Lady . And when to judgement they were set , he called for these wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from th' other then : He asked the first where he did see that fair Lady ? He said under a Mulberry Tree , who lied falsely . Thou liest ( said Daniel ) on thy head , thy sentence is before the Lord , He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that bore Record , To see how they two did agree , Lady , Lady , He said under a Pomegranate Tree , who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord , Stands waiting at the Door , even to cut thee with a Sword : And even with that the multitude , aloud did cry , Give thanks to God and so conclude , for this Lady . They dealt like with these wicked men , according as the Scripture says , They did as with their Neighbour then , by Moses Law were put to Death : She innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . And Excellent Ballad , entitled , The Constancy of SUSANNA . To and Excellent New Tune . THere was a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame , He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna was she call'd by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should not we of her learn thus , to live Godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story you may read , was well brought up in Moses Law . Her Parents they were Godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should not we then talk of this Lady : That year two Judges there were made which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade , who was Susanna's Husband then : Joachim was a great Rich man . Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady . Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , herself did daily there solace : And that these Elders soon espy'd , Lady , Lady , And privately themselves did hide , for that Lady . Her chaste and constant life was try'd , by these Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espy'd , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone herself did wash her fair body . The Elders came to her anon , & thus they said , fair Maid good speed The doors are fast , the Maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed : For we are Men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady . If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how can'st thou then avoid this thing ? Therefore consent and to us turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said alas ! now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do not , Lady , Lady , It is my death right well I wot , Oh true Lady . Better it were for me to fallen into your hands , and be guiltless , Then that I should consent at all , to this your shameful wickedness : And even with that ( where as she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cry'd aloud , pitifully . THese Elders does likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cry'd , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they thought to hide , Unto her friends they then her brought , Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life was sought of that Lady . On the morrow she was brought forth , before the people for to stand , That they might hear & know the truth , how these two Elders Susanna found , The Elders swore and thus did say , Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with this Lady . Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna causeless she must die , These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify : Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susanna's friends that stood by her , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go , Then unto him that is so just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him they cry . The Lord her voice herd , and beheld the Daughters cry of Israel , His Spirit he raised in a Child , whose name was call'd young Daniel : Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady . Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then ? in Judgement you have not done well Nor yet the right way have you gone , to Judge the Daughter of Israel : By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to Judgement turn again , for that Lady . And when to judgement they were set , he called for these wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from th' other then : He asked the first where he did see that fair Lady ? He said under a Mulberry Tree , who lied falsely . Thou liest ( said Daniel ) on thy head , thy sentence is before the Lord , He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that bore Record , To see how they two did agree , Lady , Lady , He said under a Pomegranate Tree , who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord , Stands waiting at the Door , even to cut thee with a Sword : And even with that the multitude , aloud did cry , Give thanks to God and so conclude , for this Lady . They dealt like with these wicked men , according as the Scripture says , They did as with their Neighbour then , by Moses Law were put to Death : She innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . 