And excellent Ballad of the Mercers Son of Midhurst , AND The Clothiers daughter of Guilford . To the Tune of , Dainty come to me . THere was a wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his trade , as many yet can tell : He had a youthful Son whom fancy did so move , He cried night and day alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers daughter dear works my calamity : She hath my heart in hold that did most cruel prove , Thus cried he night and day alack , etc Alack I die for love , fortune so soar does frown , The jewel of my heart dwells in Guilford town : There lives the lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find , The Clothiers daughter dear , bears too high a mind : Sweet beauty's Paragon , fair Venus silver Dove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc , Alack I die for love , while thou dost laugh and smile , Let not thy pleasure be true love for to beguile : My life lies in your hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son , alack , etc If that my beauty bright does grieve thy heart ( quoth she ) Then let the Mercers Son turn still his face from me : I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My heart must still say nay where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , lovers all must I shun , The Clothiers daughter thus answered the Mercers Son : I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , Although I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy : Thou art too found a man life danger thus to prove , I'll not wed good friend John where my heart cannot love . What good can there befall to that new married wife , Where goods and wealth is small , want causeth deadly strife , But where wealth is at will , experience oft does prove , Though love at first is small , yet goods increases love . Yet goods increases love , and I will never wed , But where the Key of Gold opens the door to bed : For she may merry be what chance soever hap , Where bags of money comes tumbling within her lap . Tumbling within her lap , while she her Gold does tell , With such a husband sir I do delight to dwell , Were he young , were he old , deform'd or fair in show , My pleasure still should be , where pleasure still does flow . Where pleasure still does flow , is that your mind ( quoth he ) My father will bestow as much as comes to thee : Hadst thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My father will bestow : If thou wilt be my bride . If thou wilt be my bride , thus much I understand ; my father will give me , his house and eke his land ; So while that he does live , with us he may remain , What says my hearts delight , is this a bargain plain ? This is a bargain plain , ( quoth she ) I am content ; So he perform this thing I give thee my consent , And I will merry be my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my Sweetheart , i'll be thy own true love . I'll be thy own true love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see our marriage happy day . To Midhurst in all haste goes the mercers Son ; He told his father dear , his true love he had wone . The Old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his House and land , When he had done this deed he wept most bitterly , Saying my dearest son thou must be good to me : Well worth two hundred pound this morning was I known , But the Clothes of my back now nothing is my own : And all this I have done dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal thou well with me . Dear father ( quod , the Son ) if I do not do so , God pour upon my head hight vengeance , grief and woe : The Youngman wedded was to his fair lovely bride But wondrous grief and woe : therefore there did betide . As after you shall hear , in the Old men complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your heart attaint . A warning by this thing all men may understand , Lest they do come to live under their Children's hand . FINIS . And excellent Ballad of the Mercers Son of Midhurst , AND The Clothiers daughter of Guilford . To the Tune of , Dainty come to me . THere was a wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his trade , as many yet can tell : He had a youthful Son whom fancy did so move , He cried night and day alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers daughter dear works my calamity : She hath my heart in hold that did most cruel prove , Thus cried he night and day alack , etc Alack I die for love , fortune so soar does frown , The jewel of my heart dwells in Guilford town : There lives the lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find , The Clothiers daughter dear , bears too high a mind : Sweet beauty's Paragon , fair Venus silver Dove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc , Alack I die for love , while thou dost laugh and smile , Let not thy pleasure be true love for to beguile : My life lies in your hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son , alack , etc If that my beauty bright does grieve thy heart ( quoth she ) Then let the Mercers Son turn still his face from me : I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My heart must still say nay where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , lovers all must I shun , The Clothiers daughter thus answered the Mercers Son : I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , Although I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy : Thou art too found a man life danger thus to prove , I'll not wed good friend John where my heart cannot love . What good can there befall to that new married wife , Where goods and wealth is small , want causeth deadly strife , But where wealth is at will , experience oft does prove , Though love at first is small , yet goods increases love . Yet goods increases love , and I will never wed , But where the Key of Gold opens the door to bed : For she may merry be what chance soever hap , Where bags of money comes tumbling within her lap . Tumbling within her lap , while she her Gold does tell , With such a husband sir I do delight to dwell , Were he young , were he old , deform'd or fair in show , My pleasure still should be , where pleasure still does flow . Where pleasure still does flow , is that your mind ( quoth he ) My father will bestow as much as comes to thee : Hadst thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My father will bestow : If thou wilt be my bride . If thou wilt be my bride , thus much I understand ; my father will give me , his house and eke his land ; So while that he does live , with us he may remain , What says my hearts delight , is this a bargain plain ? This is a bargain plain , ( quoth she ) I am content ; So he perform this thing I give thee my consent , And I will merry be my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my Sweetheart , i'll be thy own true love . I'll be thy own true love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see our marriage happy day . To Midhurst in all haste goes the mercers Son ; He told his father dear , his true love he had wone . The Old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his House and land , When he had done this deed he wept most bitterly , Saying my dearest son thou must be good to me : Well worth two hundred pound this morning was I known , But the Clothes of my back now nothing is my own : And all this I have done dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal thou well with me . Dear father ( quod , the Son ) if I do not do so , God pour upon my head hight vengeance , grief and woe : The Youngman wedded was to his fair lovely bride But wondrous grief and woe : therefore there did betide . As after you shall hear , in the Old men complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your heart attaint . A warning by this thing all men may understand , Lest they do come to live under their Children's hand . FINIS . 