The Covetous Mother , Or , The terrible Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . You that these woeful tidings hear , surely your hearts may bleed ; Who can forbear to shed a tear , when they these lines shall read ? Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a creature . This may be printed , R.P. THere was a wealthy young Squire , whom a fair Damosel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , nothing his fancy could move : She born of ordinary Parents . which when his Friends this did know , They strove to set them at variance , proving their sad overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother , pray you now listen to me ; I have consider'd another suitable to your degree ; That you may rise to promotion , she is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand pound to her Portion ; therefore your folly forbear . Mother , those Charms does inflame me which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore I pray do not blame me , True Love is better than Gold . Might I have Wealth out of measure , nothing my mind can remove ; I'le never marry for Treasure , give me the Creature I love . I can maintain like a Lady she whom I much do adore ; Have I not Riches already ? what need I covet for more ? If you give me not one penny , I have a Hundred a Year : Now if I marry with any , it shall be Nancy my Dear . Son , if your Love be so rooted that from her you cannot part , By me it shan't be disputed , take her then with all my heart . But she in this was deceitful , as by this Ditty you'l find , Never was actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , vowing to send her away ; Yet with a smile she did meet her , saying , dear Daughter this day We will go buy your Attire , everything i'le provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned desire , that you shall be my Sons Bride . Thus was the matter contrived , just as his Mother would have ; Then to a Captain in private she sold her to be a Slave : She from Old England did send her , fill'd with much sorrow and woe ; There was no Soul to defend her , but was compelled to go . When her invention was over , then she return'd to her Son , Freely to him to discover , presently what she had done : When he herd what she had acted , his Rapier straight he pull'd forth , Raving like one quite distracted , crying , you've ruin'd us both . Then on the point of his Rapier he did immediately fallen ; His Life did go out like a Taper , this was the ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , was of a covetous mind : Money the Root of all evil caus'd this confusion we find . Now does his Mother with weeping weary out many a day ; While her dear Son he lies sleeping low in a cold Bed of Clay . This is a sad Desolation , she whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , where she will ne'r see him more . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate The Covetous Mother , Or , The terrible Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . You that these woeful tidings hear , surely your hearts may bleed ; Who can forbear to shed a tear , when they these lines shall read ? Tune of , Oh so ungrateful a creature . This may be printed , R.P. THere was a wealthy young Squire , whom a fair Damosel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , nothing his fancy could move : She born of ordinary Parents . which when his Friends this did know , They strove to set them at variance , proving their sad overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother , pray you now listen to me ; I have consider'd another suitable to your degree ; That you may rise to promotion , she is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand pound to her Portion ; therefore your folly forbear . Mother , those Charms does inflame me which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore I pray do not blame me , True Love is better than Gold . Might I have Wealth out of measure , nothing my mind can remove ; I'le never marry for Treasure , give me the Creature I love . I can maintain like a Lady she whom I much do adore ; Have I not Riches already ? what need I covet for more ? If you give me not one penny , I have a Hundred a Year : Now if I marry with any , it shall be Nancy my Dear . Son , if your Love be so rooted that from her you cannot part , By me it shan't be disputed , take her then with all my heart . But she in this was deceitful , as by this Ditty you'l find , Never was actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , vowing to send her away ; Yet with a smile she did meet her , saying , dear Daughter this day We will go buy your Attire , everything i'le provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned desire , that you shall be my Sons Bride . Thus was the matter contrived , just as his Mother would have ; Then to a Captain in private she sold her to be a Slave : She from Old England did send her , fill'd with much sorrow and woe ; There was no Soul to defend her , but was compelled to go . When her invention was over , then she return'd to her Son , Freely to him to discover , presently what she had done : When he herd what she had acted , his Rapier straight he pull'd forth , Raving like one quite distracted , crying , you've ruin'd us both . Then on the point of his Rapier he did immediately fallen ; His Life did go out like a Taper , this was the ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , was of a covetous mind : Money the Root of all evil caus'd this confusion we find . Now does his Mother with weeping weary out many a day ; While her dear Son he lies sleeping low in a cold Bed of Clay . This is a sad Desolation , she whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , where she will ne'r see him more . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate 