[ A ] CONGRATULATORY POE [ M ] On the Safe Arrival of His Grace JAMES Duke of MONMOUTH At UTRETCH , on Saturday Sept. 27. 1679. Welcome , Renowned Prince ! thrice Welcome here , Who art to Europe , as to Britain dear : No Land or Country but has herd your Fame ; In every place is known Great MONMOUTH's Name : There is no Nation but your Worth can tell , And where you may beloved , in safety dwell : Such is your Virtue , that where ever you come , You are no Stranger , but are still at Home . It is the lustre of your beauteous Mind , That makes you thus the Darling of Mankind . Though you never used mean , base , and politic Arts , To overcome , and win the Peoples Hearts ; Yet you have gained , for which you never strove , By Virtue's secret Charms , a Nations Love . When you the Court , and famous LONDON left , All looked as if they were of Joy beref A Spring-Tide flowed from all the Peoples Eyes , Which followed was , with and huge Storm of sighs ; By which your Foes , if you have any , learned , That all the honest World's for you concerned ; And till they herd you safely Landed were , A troubled Cloud did in each Face appear : But now , Great Sir , their trouble will abate , And your safe Landing we Congratulate : All honest Englishmen rejoice to see You've passed the Dangers of the British Sea : For you to Heaven ten thousand Prayers are sent , As many happy Wishes daily spent ; The People inwardly do sighs and mourn And will no comfort take till You Return Though you have England left , yet you are To Us , and to your Royal Father dear You are both Heavens , and your Mona May Heaven protect you by's Almighty Arm That in your Travels you may take no harm May he preserve your much-desired Lot From Popish Plots , and from the Jesuitss Art May true Religion still your Soul possess And may Heaven you with Sacred Virtue dress Fit you with Hermes great Triplicity , With Knowledge , Power , and true Piety May you in Wisdom shine like Solomon , At least deserve , if not possess a Throne May your Great Father's mercy you attain ? And may you back to ENGLAND soon [ ? ] These are the Wishes that do you attend And which all Loyal Hearts to Heaven worser [ ? ] Egbert , from whom you do derive your raze To whom the Saxon Heptarchy gave place Whose Valour did convert seven Crowns And mounted first the English Monarch's throne Once left his Country , silently withdrew , And Traveled into Foreign parts , like You But did Return with Glory , and Renown And by his Virtue did obtain a Crown . FINIS . LONDON , Printed by NAT . THOMPSON at the Cross Keys in Fetter-lane . MDCLXXIX . [ A ] CONGRATULATORY POE [ M ] On the Safe Arrival of His Grace JAMES Duke of MONMOUTH At UTRETCH , on Saturday Sept. 27. 1679. Welcome , Renowned Prince ! thrice Welcome here , Who art to Europe , as to Britain dear : No Land or Country but has herd your Fame ; In every place is known Great MONMOUTH's Name : There is no Nation but your Worth can tell , And where you may beloved , in safety dwell : Such is your Virtue , that where ever you come , You are no Stranger , but are still at Home . It is the lustre of your beauteous Mind , That makes you thus the Darling of Mankind . Though you never used mean , base , and politic Arts , To overcome , and win the Peoples Hearts ; Yet you have gained , for which you never strove , By Virtue's secret Charms , a Nations Love . When you the Court , and famous LONDON left , All looked as if they were of Joy beref A Spring-Tide flowed from all the Peoples Eyes , Which followed was , with and huge Storm of sighs ; By which your Foes , if you have any , learned , That all the honest World's for you concerned ; And till they herd you safely Landed were , A troubled Cloud did in each Face appear : But now , Great Sir , their trouble will abate , And your safe Landing we Congratulate : All honest Englishmen rejoice to see You've passed the Dangers of the British Sea : For you to Heaven ten thousand Prayers are sent , As many happy Wishes daily spent ; The People inwardly do sighs and mourn And will no comfort take till You Return Though you have England left , yet you are To Us , and to your Royal Father dear You are both Heavens , and your Mona May Heaven protect you by's Almighty Arm That in your Travels you may take no harm May he preserve your much-desired Lot From Popish Plots , and from the Jesuitss Art May true Religion still your Soul possess And may Heaven you with Sacred Virtue dress Fit you with Hermes great Triplicity , With Knowledge , Power , and true Piety May you in Wisdom shine like Solomon , At least deserve , if not possess a Throne May your Great Father's mercy you attain ? And may you back to ENGLAND soon [ ? ] These are the Wishes that do you attend And which all Loyal Hearts to Heaven worser [ ? ] Egbert , from whom you do derive your raze To whom the Saxon Heptarchy gave place Whose Valour did convert seven Crowns And mounted first the English Monarch's throne Once left his Country , silently withdrew , And Traveled into Foreign parts , like You But did Return with Glory , and Renown And by his Virtue did obtain a Crown . FINIS . LONDON , Printed by NAT . THOMPSON at the Cross Keys in Fetter-lane . MDCLXXIX . 