England's Black Tribunal Or , King Charles's Martyrdom . TRUE Churchmen all , I pray behold & see , Great Charles once England's king in misery His suffering now I mean to tell , How Britons did against their King rebel . A court they made which they did justice call , And there those traitors most tyrannical , Of cruelty impeached the best of Kings , Of murder , treason and such heinous things . Basely they us'd the royal prisoner there , He not being suffer'd truth for to declare , It's strange says Charles a most surprising thing , You can't make laws now for to try your King . Our court is just the president reply'd , And by these laws , sir , now you must be try'd , For against the lords and commons of this land , It's not for prisoners to dispute and stand . Then said the King I think my case is hard , Worse than the malefactors I am serv'd , For they have liberty to plead their cause ; Why don't you grant me the true British laws . Consider first I'm your anointed King , Take heed , lest judgement on this land you bring For if the lord's appointed you do slay , Take care you don't repent the bloody day . In vain did speak this Prince of Royal Blood , His words indeed they did but little good , For by those bloody tyrants he was cast , Charles Stuart , you must lose your head at last As he pass'd down stairs , the soldiers base , Did smoke tobacco in his royal face , Spitting upon him as he did pass by , Forgive them , Christ , forgive them he did cry . It is no more than what my saviour dear , Did suffer for poor sinful mortals here , If thus the King of Heaven they did kill , What is my blood to his , which they did spil . My earthly crown I freely down do lay , Although they thus do take my life away , I hope a crown of glory to obtain , Forever with the blessed above to reign . I now do suffer for a cause that's good , For the protestant laws I always stood , But when my head they from my body take , Christ keep the church for thy dear mercy's sake . Then he did beg his children for to see , It being granted then that liberty , Those that in England being present there , To see their dying father did repair . When the lady Elizabeth did her father see , She trembling fell before him on her knee , Having the WORSER [ u ] ke of Gloucester in her hand , Rise , says the King , before your father stand . Behold dear child , the King to her did say , Great Charles who once did England's Sceptre sway Is try'd and cast , upon the block to die , Not knowing of the cause or reason why . O royal father said the Princess then , What will become of us when you are gone , If they've the heart to slay our father dear , I fear our death's are drawing very near . If I could die upon the block for thee , Death would be but a little unto me ; But I must live to see my father bleed , Oh cruel tyrants you who doe the deed . O child ! when I am gone , the King reply'd , You have a God for to stand on your side , I hope he will preserve the Stuart's raze , So heaven bless and mark you all with grace . Then taking of the Duke of Gloucester young , Upon his knee which was his youngest son ; Said he dear child , I give this charge to thee , That to your brother you obedient be . It is your brother Charles that I do mean , You must call him your sovereign lord and King , For they will cut off thy dear father's head , The babe then wept for to hear what he said . Then who must be my father said the child , The lord of heaven said the King and smil'd , With that the child upon his neck did fly , Saying father let us both together die . This kind expression of a child so young , It caus'd the tears like fountains for to run , A thousand times he kiss'd his children dear , And on his knees with them fell down to prayers . And blessing of them took his last farewell , Saying with your father things will soon do well ; Next to the block this Martyr was convey'd , At his own Palace gate to lose his head . How can the Presbyterians bear to hear , How patiently he did his sufferings bear ; How freely he his earthly crown did leave , In hope's a crown of glory to receive . In Windsor Chapel there his corpse was laid , When the Lord Bishop of London was deny'd , At the funeral to read the common prayer , A thing his royal master lov'd so dear . Thus fell the Church as likewise fell the King , Oh cruel Presbyterians I am sure this thing , Can never be forgotten , the bloody day , On which your royal master , you did slay . We never more will put it in your power , The Church of England up for to devour ; Heaven preserve the Church likewise the State , And keep it from the Presbyterians cruel hate . LONDON : Printed and Sold by R. COSTER , at No. 14 , Hosier-Lane , West-Smithfield . England's Black Tribunal Or , King Charles's Martyrdom . TRUE Churchmen all , I pray behold & see , Great Charles once England's king in misery His suffering now I mean to tell , How Britons did against their King rebel . A court they made which they did justice call , And there those traitors most tyrannical , Of cruelty impeached the best of Kings , Of murder , treason and such heinous things . Basely they us'd the royal prisoner there , He not being suffer'd truth for to declare , It's strange says Charles a most surprising thing , You can't make laws now for to try your King . Our court is just the president reply'd , And by these laws , sir , now you must be try'd , For against the lords and commons of this land , It's not for prisoners to dispute and stand . Then said the King I think my case is hard , Worse than the malefactors I am serv'd , For they have liberty to plead their cause ; Why don't you grant me the true British laws . Consider first I'm your anointed King , Take heed , lest judgement on this land you bring For if the lord's appointed you do slay , Take care you don't repent the bloody day . In vain did speak this Prince of Royal Blood , His words indeed they did but little good , For by those bloody tyrants he was cast , Charles Stuart , you must lose your head at last As he pass'd down stairs , the soldiers base , Did smoke tobacco in his royal face , Spitting upon him as he did pass by , Forgive them , Christ , forgive them he did cry . It is no more than what my saviour dear , Did suffer for poor sinful mortals here , If thus the King of Heaven they did kill , What is my blood to his , which they did spil . My earthly crown I freely down do lay , Although they thus do take my life away , I hope a crown of glory to obtain , Forever with the blessed above to reign . I now do suffer for a cause that's good , For the protestant laws I always stood , But when my head they from my body take , Christ keep the church for thy dear mercy's sake . Then he did beg his children for to see , It being granted then that liberty , Those that in England being present there , To see their dying father did repair . When the lady Elizabeth did her father see , She trembling fell before him on her knee , Having the WORSER [ u ] ke of Gloucester in her hand , Rise , says the King , before your father stand . Behold dear child , the King to her did say , Great Charles who once did England's Sceptre sway Is try'd and cast , upon the block to die , Not knowing of the cause or reason why . O royal father said the Princess then , What will become of us when you are gone , If they've the heart to slay our father dear , I fear our death's are drawing very near . If I could die upon the block for thee , Death would be but a little unto me ; But I must live to see my father bleed , Oh cruel tyrants you who doe the deed . O child ! when I am gone , the King reply'd , You have a God for to stand on your side , I hope he will preserve the Stuart's raze , So heaven bless and mark you all with grace . Then taking of the Duke of Gloucester young , Upon his knee which was his youngest son ; Said he dear child , I give this charge to thee , That to your brother you obedient be . It is your brother Charles that I do mean , You must call him your sovereign lord and King , For they will cut off thy dear father's head , The babe then wept for to hear what he said . Then who must be my father said the child , The lord of heaven said the King and smil'd , With that the child upon his neck did fly , Saying father let us both together die . This kind expression of a child so young , It caus'd the tears like fountains for to run , A thousand times he kiss'd his children dear , And on his knees with them fell down to prayers . And blessing of them took his last farewell , Saying with your father things will soon do well ; Next to the block this Martyr was convey'd , At his own Palace gate to lose his head . How can the Presbyterians bear to hear , How patiently he did his sufferings bear ; How freely he his earthly crown did leave , In hope's a crown of glory to receive . In Windsor Chapel there his corpse was laid , When the Lord Bishop of London was deny'd , At the funeral to read the common prayer , A thing his royal master lov'd so dear . Thus fell the Church as likewise fell the King , Oh cruel Presbyterians I am sure this thing , Can never be forgotten , the bloody day , On which your royal master , you did slay . We never more will put it in your power , The Church of England up for to devour ; Heaven preserve the Church likewise the State , And keep it from the Presbyterians cruel hate . LONDON : Printed and Sold by R. COSTER , at No. 14 , Hosier-Lane , West-Smithfield . 