Villainy Rewarded ; OR , THE PIRATES Last Farewell To the World : Who was Executed at Execution Dock , on Wednesday the 25th . of November , 1696. Being of Every's Crew . Together with their free Confession of their most Horrid Crimes . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . WEll may the World against us cry , for these our Deeds most base , For which , alas ! we now must die , Death looks us in the face ; Which is no more than what's our endue , since we so wicked were , As here shall be declared to you , let Pirates then take care . We with our Comrades , not yet taken , together did agree , And stole a Ship out from the Groin , to Rome upon the Sea : With which we Robbed , and Plundered too , [ no ] Ship that we did S [ pare , ] Thus many a one we did undo , let Pirates then take care . Our Ship being well stored then for this our Enterprise , One Hundred and Eighty Men there was in her likewise : We Pillaged all we could come nigh , no Nation we did spare , For which a shameful death we die , let Pirates then take care . We Robbed a Ship upon the Seas , the Gunsway called by name , Which we met near the East-Indias . In it was Gold and Silver store , of which all had a share , Each man 600 Pounds and more . let Pirates then take care . Thus for some time we lived , and Reigned as master's of the Sea , Every Merchant we detained , and used most cruelly , The Treasures took , we sunk the Ship , with those that in it were , That would not unto us submit , let Pirates then take care . Thus Wickedly we every day lived upon others good , The which , alas ! we must repay now with our dearest blood , For we on no one mercy took , nor any did we spare , How can we then for mercy look . let Pirates then take care . We thus did live most cruelly , and of no danger thought , But we at last , as you may see , are unto Justice brought , For Outrages of Villainy , of which we Guilty are , And now this very day must die . let Pirates then take care . Now farewell to this wicked Woe [ rld ] and our Companions too , From hence we quickly shall be hur [ l'd ] to clear the way for you , For certainly if ever you come to Justice as we are , Desert [ ved de ] at [ h will ] your doom , then Pirates all take care . LONDON : Printed for Charles Barnet , 1696. Villainy Rewarded ; OR , THE PIRATES Last Farewell To the World : Who was Executed at Execution Dock , on Wednesday the 25th . of November , 1696. Being of Every's Crew . Together with their free Confession of their most Horrid Crimes . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . WEll may the World against us cry , for these our Deeds most base , For which , alas ! we now must die , Death looks us in the face ; Which is no more than what's our endue , since we so wicked were , As here shall be declared to you , let Pirates then take care . We with our Comrades , not yet taken , together did agree , And stole a Ship out from the Groin , to Rome upon the Sea : With which we Robbed , and Plundered too , [ no ] Ship that we did S [ pare , ] Thus many a one we did undo , let Pirates then take care . Our Ship being well stored then for this our Enterprise , One Hundred and Eighty Men there was in her likewise : We Pillaged all we could come nigh , no Nation we did spare , For which a shameful death we die , let Pirates then take care . We Robbed a Ship upon the Seas , the Gunsway called by name , Which we met near the East-Indias . In it was Gold and Silver store , of which all had a share , Each man 600 Pounds and more . let Pirates then take care . Thus for some time we lived , and Reigned as master's of the Sea , Every Merchant we detained , and used most cruelly , The Treasures took , we sunk the Ship , with those that in it were , That would not unto us submit , let Pirates then take care . Thus Wickedly we every day lived upon others good , The which , alas ! we must repay now with our dearest blood , For we on no one mercy took , nor any did we spare , How can we then for mercy look . let Pirates then take care . We thus did live most cruelly , and of no danger thought , But we at last , as you may see , are unto Justice brought , For Outrages of Villainy , of which we Guilty are , And now this very day must die . let Pirates then take care . Now farewell to this wicked Woe [ rld ] and our Companions too , From hence we quickly shall be hur [ l'd ] to clear the way for you , For certainly if ever you come to Justice as we are , Desert [ ved de ] at [ h will ] your doom , then Pirates all take care . LONDON : Printed for Charles Barnet , 1696. 