The Down-ight WOOING OF Honest JOHN & BETTY . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . This may be Printed , R. P. WEll met my pretty Betty happy be our Meeting , I prithee on me take pity , and thus he fell a Greeting : Thou art she whom I love so dear , above all worldly Treasure , There's no Love with mine can compare , I love thee beyond all measure . Bettys Reply to John. I wonder John , how it came about , that you should love so dearly , I fear you do but jeer and flout , I prithee don't come near me ; And don't stand prating at this rate , but I prithee now be going , Or with my Ladle i'll break thy Pate , for I like no deceitful Wooing . I prithee Betty be not Coy , but let's enjoy the Blessing , I'll tell thee what thoust enjoy , of Goods I have possessing : I have god a You and and Lamb , with a Cow and Calf together , have that will bravely stand , will make thee a glad Mother . I have a Cupboard and three Chairs , with Dishes and a Ladle , Beside a Barrel to hold good Beer , also a Nursing Cradle : I have Spindles , Whirls and Reels , with Feather-Bed and Bedding , And a new Spinning Wheel , which thou shalt have at our Wedding . I have a little Dog to Bark , if any come to fright thee , My House is as safe as Noahs Ark , in which I will del [ i ] ght thee : The pretty Crickets they do sing , while I am in the Barn a Thrashing , They'll be pleasing when thou dost Spin , or Bake , Brew , or Washing . My Mother left me twenty hives of Bees which will yield good store of Honey , We'll gather up all and none we'll lose , it will bring us good store of Money : I have eight Pigs and a Sow , with Hens and Chickens plenty , I have beside all this , I vow , two Brood-Geese and Goslings twenty . I have god a gay Gold Ring , for my pretty Betty , And i'll please thee in every thing , then I prithee on me take pity : A black Scarf spick and span New , Gloves and Ribbons , newest Fashion , If thou wilt have me tell me now , and don't put me into a passion . The Maid began to smile at this , and was pleased at his Fancy , The Bargain she Sealed with a Kiss , and said , John's the Man I fancy : Thou shalt be my hearts delight , and I will be thy Honey , We'll work together day and night , and I hope we shall never want Money . The day appointed was with speed , when they was to be Married , Their Friends likewise did agree , that nothing should be miscarried : There was both Wine , Ale and Beer , all sorts of Provision plenty , A Noise of Music their hearts to cheer , Strawberries and Cream most dainty . Then they to Dancing went , each Lad then with their Lasses , They kissed each Lass with their consent , so the time away they passes : The Fiddler sung them a Merry Song , which caused much Laughter , And John began for to think long , for the Pastime he should have after . By E. W. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . The Down-ight WOOING OF Honest JOHN & BETTY . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . This may be Printed , R. P. WEll met my pretty Betty happy be our Meeting , I prithee on me take pity , and thus he fell a Greeting : Thou art she whom I love so dear , above all worldly Treasure , There's no Love with mine can compare , I love thee beyond all measure . Bettys Reply to John. I wonder John , how it came about , that you should love so dearly , I fear you do but jeer and flout , I prithee don't come near me ; And don't stand prating at this rate , but I prithee now be going , Or with my Ladle i'll break thy Pate , for I like no deceitful Wooing . I prithee Betty be not Coy , but let's enjoy the Blessing , I'll tell thee what thoust enjoy , of Goods I have possessing : I have god a You and and Lamb , with a Cow and Calf together , have that will bravely stand , will make thee a glad Mother . I have a Cupboard and three Chairs , with Dishes and a Ladle , Beside a Barrel to hold good Beer , also a Nursing Cradle : I have Spindles , Whirls and Reels , with Feather-Bed and Bedding , And a new Spinning Wheel , which thou shalt have at our Wedding . I have a little Dog to Bark , if any come to fright thee , My House is as safe as Noahs Ark , in which I will del [ i ] ght thee : The pretty Crickets they do sing , while I am in the Barn a Thrashing , They'll be pleasing when thou dost Spin , or Bake , Brew , or Washing . My Mother left me twenty hives of Bees which will yield good store of Honey , We'll gather up all and none we'll lose , it will bring us good store of Money : I have eight Pigs and a Sow , with Hens and Chickens plenty , I have beside all this , I vow , two Brood-Geese and Goslings twenty . I have god a gay Gold Ring , for my pretty Betty , And i'll please thee in every thing , then I prithee on me take pity : A black Scarf spick and span New , Gloves and Ribbons , newest Fashion , If thou wilt have me tell me now , and don't put me into a passion . The Maid began to smile at this , and was pleased at his Fancy , The Bargain she Sealed with a Kiss , and said , John's the Man I fancy : Thou shalt be my hearts delight , and I will be thy Honey , We'll work together day and night , and I hope we shall never want Money . The day appointed was with speed , when they was to be Married , Their Friends likewise did agree , that nothing should be miscarried : There was both Wine , Ale and Beer , all sorts of Provision plenty , A Noise of Music their hearts to cheer , Strawberries and Cream most dainty . Then they to Dancing went , each Lad then with their Lasses , They kissed each Lass with their consent , so the time away they passes : The Fiddler sung them a Merry Song , which caused much Laughter , And John began for to think long , for the Pastime he should have after . By E. W. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 