A Friends advice , In and excellent Ditty , Concerning the variable Changes in this life . To pleasant new Tune , WHat if a day , or a month , or a year crown thy delights , With a thousand wished contentings ? Cannot the chance of a night , or and hour cross thy delights with as many sad tormentings ? Fortune in her fairest birth are but blossoms dying , Wanton pleasures doting mirth , are but shadows flying ; All our joys are but toys . idle thoughts deceiving , None hath power of and hour , in our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck , or a look , feed thy found thoughts with many a sweet conceiving ? May not that smile , or that beck , or that look tell thee as well they are but vain deceiving ? Why should Beauty be so proud , in things of no surmounting ? All her wealth is but a shroud of a rich accounting ; Then in this , repose no bliss , which is so vain and idle , Beauty's Flowers , have their hours , TO [ ime does ho ] ld [ the ] B [ r ] idle [ . ] What if the World with allures of her wealth raise thy degree , to a place of high advancing ? May not the World by a check of that wealth put thee again to a low despised changing ? While the Sun of wealth does shine , thou shalt have friends plenty , But come want then they repine , not one abides of twenty ; Wealth and Friends , holds and ends , all your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , certain is no state at all . What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness ? Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit show thee the from of thy own true perfect likeness ? Health is but a glimpse of joy , subject to all changes . Mirth is but a silly toy with mishap estranges , Tell me then silly Man , why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy w [ hen thou mayest in quiet fit ? ] The second part to the same Tune . THen if all this , have declared thine amiss take it from me as a gentle friendly warning ; If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse thou mayest hereafter , dearly buy thy learning ; All is hazard that we have , there is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , Time does go , there is no returning , Secret Fates , guides our States , both in mirth and mourning , Man's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud that in a thought or a moment he is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , that in a trice , on sudden is rehearsed , Hope's are changed , & thy thoughts are crossed Will nor skill prevails Though we laugh and live at ease , change of thoughts assails , Though a while , Fortune smile , and her comforts frowneth , Yet at length , fails her strength and in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , and of a month , in a moment quite expired ; But in the night , with the word of a noise , crossed in the day of and ease our hearts desired ; Fairest Blossoms soonest-fade , withered , foul and rotten , And through greatest joys , quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) earthly fleeting pleasure , But with pain , strive to gain Heavenly lasting Treasure . Earth to the World . as Man to the Earth , hath but a point , and a point is soon defaced , Flesh to the Soul , as Flower to the Sun , that in a storm or a Tempest is disgraced ; Fortune may the body please which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , that is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , to the Souls election , Worldly grace , does deface , men Divine perfection . Fleshly delight to the Earth that is fleshly may be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings ; But the defaults of a fleshly desire brings to the Soul many thousand sad tormentings ; Be not proud presumptuous man , sith thou art a point so base , Of the least and lowest Element , which hath least and lowest place , Mark thy Fate , and thy State , which is only Earth and Dust , And as Grass , which alas shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and Earthly desire bar thee the joys , of and earnest contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed to hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation ; Be not backward in that course that may bring thy Soul delight , Although another war may seem far more pleasant . to thy sighed ; Do not go , if he says doe , that knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shelt not miss , and endless happiness to find . London , Printed by E. C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . A Friends advice , In and excellent Ditty , Concerning the variable Changes in this life . To pleasant new Tune , WHat if a day , or a month , or a year crown thy delights , With a thousand wished contentings ? Cannot the chance of a night , or and hour cross thy delights with as many sad tormentings ? Fortune in her fairest birth are but blossoms dying , Wanton pleasures doting mirth , are but shadows flying ; All our joys are but toys . idle thoughts deceiving , None hath power of and hour , in our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck , or a look , feed thy found thoughts with many a sweet conceiving ? May not that smile , or that beck , or that look tell thee as well they are but vain deceiving ? Why should Beauty be so proud , in things of no surmounting ? All her wealth is but a shroud of a rich accounting ; Then in this , repose no bliss , which is so vain and idle , Beauty's Flowers , have their hours , TO [ ime does ho ] ld [ the ] B [ r ] idle [ . ] What if the World with allures of her wealth raise thy degree , to a place of high advancing ? May not the World by a check of that wealth put thee again to a low despised changing ? While the Sun of wealth does shine , thou shalt have friends plenty , But come want then they repine , not one abides of twenty ; Wealth and Friends , holds and ends , all your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , certain is no state at all . What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness ? Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit show thee the from of thy own true perfect likeness ? Health is but a glimpse of joy , subject to all changes . Mirth is but a silly toy with mishap estranges , Tell me then silly Man , why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy w [ hen thou mayest in quiet fit ? ] The second part to the same Tune . THen if all this , have declared thine amiss take it from me as a gentle friendly warning ; If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse thou mayest hereafter , dearly buy thy learning ; All is hazard that we have , there is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , Time does go , there is no returning , Secret Fates , guides our States , both in mirth and mourning , Man's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud that in a thought or a moment he is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , that in a trice , on sudden is rehearsed , Hope's are changed , & thy thoughts are crossed Will nor skill prevails Though we laugh and live at ease , change of thoughts assails , Though a while , Fortune smile , and her comforts frowneth , Yet at length , fails her strength and in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , and of a month , in a moment quite expired ; But in the night , with the word of a noise , crossed in the day of and ease our hearts desired ; Fairest Blossoms soonest-fade , withered , foul and rotten , And through greatest joys , quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) earthly fleeting pleasure , But with pain , strive to gain Heavenly lasting Treasure . Earth to the World . as Man to the Earth , hath but a point , and a point is soon defaced , Flesh to the Soul , as Flower to the Sun , that in a storm or a Tempest is disgraced ; Fortune may the body please which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , that is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , to the Souls election , Worldly grace , does deface , men Divine perfection . Fleshly delight to the Earth that is fleshly may be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings ; But the defaults of a fleshly desire brings to the Soul many thousand sad tormentings ; Be not proud presumptuous man , sith thou art a point so base , Of the least and lowest Element , which hath least and lowest place , Mark thy Fate , and thy State , which is only Earth and Dust , And as Grass , which alas shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and Earthly desire bar thee the joys , of and earnest contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed to hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation ; Be not backward in that course that may bring thy Soul delight , Although another war may seem far more pleasant . to thy sighed ; Do not go , if he says doe , that knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shelt not miss , and endless happiness to find . London , Printed by E. C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . 