A Lamentable Ballad , or the Tragical end of WILLIAM and MARGARET . WHEN all was wrap'd in dark midnight . And all were fast asleep ; In came Margaret's Ghost , And stood at Williams Feet . Her face was like the April morn , Clad in a wintery cloud ; And Clay-cold was her lily hand , That held her sable shroud . So shall the fairest Face appear , When youth and years are flown ; Such is the Robes that Kings must wear , When death has rest their Crown . Her bloom was like the springing Flower , That sips the silver due ; The Rose was budded in her Cheeks , And opening to the view . But love had like the Cankerworm , Consum'd her early prime : They grew pale and left her cheeks , She dy'd before her time . Awake , she cry'd , thy true love calls , Come from her midnight grave : Now let thy pity hear the maid , Thy love refus'd to save . This is the dark and fearful hour , When Injur'd ghosts complain ; Now dreary graves give up their dead , To haunt the faithless swain . Bethink thee , William of thy fault , Thy pledge , and broken oath ; And give me back my maiden Vow , And give me back my troth . How could you say my face was fair , And yet that face forsake ? How could you win my Virgin heart , Yet leave that Heart to break ? How could you promise love to me , And not that promise keep ? Why did you swear my eyes were bright , Yet leave those eyes to weep . How could you say my lips were read , And make the scarlet dale ? And why did I , young witless maid , Believe thy flattering tale ? That face , alas , no more is fair ; These lips no longer read ; Dark are my eyes now clos'd in death , And every charm is fled . The hungry worm my sister is , This winding sheet I wear ; And cold and weary lasts our night , 'Till that last morn appear . But , hark ! the cock has warn'd me hence , A long and last adieu : Come see , false man , how low she lies , That dy'd for love of you . Now birds did sing , and morning smil'd , And shew'd her glistening head ; Pale William shook in every limb , Then raving left his bed . He hy'd him to the fatal place , Where Margaret's body lay , And stretch'd himself on the green grass turf That wrapped her breathless clay . And thrice he call'd on Margaret's name , And thrice he wept full soar ; Then laid his cheek to the cold earth , And words spoke never more . Printed by D. Wrighton , No. 86 , Snow Hill , Birmingham . A Lamentable Ballad , or the Tragical end of WILLIAM and MARGARET . WHEN all was wrap'd in dark midnight . And all were fast asleep ; In came Margaret's Ghost , And stood at Williams Feet . Her face was like the April morn , Clad in a wintery cloud ; And Clay-cold was her lily hand , That held her sable shroud . So shall the fairest Face appear , When youth and years are flown ; Such is the Robes that Kings must wear , When death has rest their Crown . Her bloom was like the springing Flower , That sips the silver due ; The Rose was budded in her Cheeks , And opening to the view . But love had like the Cankerworm , Consum'd her early prime : They grew pale and left her cheeks , She dy'd before her time . Awake , she cry'd , thy true love calls , Come from her midnight grave : Now let thy pity hear the maid , Thy love refus'd to save . This is the dark and fearful hour , When Injur'd ghosts complain ; Now dreary graves give up their dead , To haunt the faithless swain . Bethink thee , William of thy fault , Thy pledge , and broken oath ; And give me back my maiden Vow , And give me back my troth . How could you say my face was fair , And yet that face forsake ? How could you win my Virgin heart , Yet leave that Heart to break ? How could you promise love to me , And not that promise keep ? Why did you swear my eyes were bright , Yet leave those eyes to weep . How could you say my lips were read , And make the scarlet dale ? And why did I , young witless maid , Believe thy flattering tale ? That face , alas , no more is fair ; These lips no longer read ; Dark are my eyes now clos'd in death , And every charm is fled . The hungry worm my sister is , This winding sheet I wear ; And cold and weary lasts our night , 'Till that last morn appear . But , hark ! the cock has warn'd me hence , A long and last adieu : Come see , false man , how low she lies , That dy'd for love of you . Now birds did sing , and morning smil'd , And shew'd her glistening head ; Pale William shook in every limb , Then raving left his bed . He hy'd him to the fatal place , Where Margaret's body lay , And stretch'd himself on the green grass turf That wrapped her breathless clay . And thrice he call'd on Margaret's name , And thrice he wept full soar ; Then laid his cheek to the cold earth , And words spoke never more . Printed by D. Wrighton , No. 86 , Snow Hill , Birmingham . 