THE Famous Flower of Serving-Men . OR , The Lady turn'd Serving-Man . To the Tune of Flora's Farewell . YOU beauteous Ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all ; Whereby that you may understand , What I have suffer'd in this Land. I was by Birth a Lady fair , My Father's chief and only Heir ; But when my good old Father dy'd . Then was I made a young Knight's Bride . And then my Love built me a Bower , Bedecked with many a fragrant Flower ; A braver Bower you ne'er did see , Than what my Love did built for me . But there came Thieves late in the Night , Who robb'd my Bower , and slew my Knight ; And after that my Knight was slave , I cou'd no longer there remain . My Servants all did from me fly , In the Midst of my Extremity ; And left me by myself alone , With a Heart more cold than any Stone Yet though my Heart was full of Care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair : When in haste I chang'd my Name , From fair Elise to sweet William . And hereupon I cut my Hair , And dressed myself in Man's Attire ; My Doublet , Hose , and Beaver Hat , And a Golden Band about my Neck . With a Silver Rapier by my Side , Most like a Gallant I did ride . The Thing that I delighted on , It was to be a Serving Man. Thus cloath'd in sumptuous Man's Array , I nobly road along the Highway ; And at the last it chanced so , That I to the King's Court did go . Then to the King I bow'd most low , My Love and Duty for to show ; And so much Favour I did crave , That I a Serving-Man's Place might have . Stand up , brave Youth , the King reply'd , The Service shall not be deny'd ; But tell me first what thou canst do , Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all ? Or wilt thou be Tapster of my Wine , To wait on me when I do dine ? Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my Bed so soft and fine ? Or wilt thou be one of the Guard ? And I will give thee great Reward . Sweet William , with a smiling Face , Said to the King , may't please your Grace , To show such Favour unto me , Your Chamberlain I fain would be . The King did then his Nobles call , To ask the Counsel of them all , Who gave Consent sweet William he The King's own Chamberlain should . Now mark what strange Things came to pass : As the King one Day a Hunting was , With his Lords and noble Train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no Company then With him at home , but and old Man ; And when he found the House was clear , He took a Lute that he had near . Upon the Lute sweet William play'd , And to the same he sung and said , With a most sweet melodious Voice , Which made the old Man to rejoice . ' My Father was as brave a Lord , ' As ever Europe could afford : ' My Mother was a Lady bright ; ' My Husband was a valiant Knight , ' And I myself a Lady gay , ' Bedeck'd with gorgeous rich Array ; ' The bravest Lady in the Land ' Had no more Pleasure at Command . ' I had my Music every Day , ' Harmonious Lessons for to play : ' I had my Virgins fair and free , ' Continually to wait on me . ' But now , alas ! my Husband's dead , ' And all my Friends are from me fled : ' My former Joys are past and gone ; ' For now I am a Serving Man. At last the King from Hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for this good old Man , And thus to speak the King began . What News , what News , old Man , said he , What News hast thou to tell to me ? Brave News , the old Man he did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tell'st to me , I'll make thee Lord of high Degree : But if thy Words do prove a Lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up presently . But when the King the Truth had found , His Joys did more and more abound : According as the old Man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Therefore the King , without Delay , Put on her gallant rich Array , And on her Head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then , for fear of further Strife , He took sweet William for his Wife : The like before was never seen ; A Serving-Man to become a Queen . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . THE Famous Flower of Serving-Men . OR , The Lady turn'd Serving-Man . To the Tune of Flora's Farewell . YOU beauteous Ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all ; Whereby that you may understand , What I have suffer'd in this Land. I was by Birth a Lady fair , My Father's chief and only Heir ; But when my good old Father dy'd . Then was I made a young Knight's Bride . And then my Love built me a Bower , Bedecked with many a fragrant Flower ; A braver Bower you ne'er did see , Than what my Love did built for me . But there came Thieves late in the Night , Who robb'd my Bower , and slew my Knight ; And after that my Knight was slave , I cou'd no longer there remain . My Servants all did from me fly , In the Midst of my Extremity ; And left me by myself alone , With a Heart more cold than any Stone Yet though my Heart was full of Care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair : When in haste I chang'd my Name , From fair Elise to sweet William . And hereupon I cut my Hair , And dressed myself in Man's Attire ; My Doublet , Hose , and Beaver Hat , And a Golden Band about my Neck . With a Silver Rapier by my Side , Most like a Gallant I did ride . The Thing that I delighted on , It was to be a Serving Man. Thus cloath'd in sumptuous Man's Array , I nobly road along the Highway ; And at the last it chanced so , That I to the King's Court did go . Then to the King I bow'd most low , My Love and Duty for to show ; And so much Favour I did crave , That I a Serving-Man's Place might have . Stand up , brave Youth , the King reply'd , The Service shall not be deny'd ; But tell me first what thou canst do , Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all ? Or wilt thou be Tapster of my Wine , To wait on me when I do dine ? Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my Bed so soft and fine ? Or wilt thou be one of the Guard ? And I will give thee great Reward . Sweet William , with a smiling Face , Said to the King , may't please your Grace , To show such Favour unto me , Your Chamberlain I fain would be . The King did then his Nobles call , To ask the Counsel of them all , Who gave Consent sweet William he The King's own Chamberlain should . Now mark what strange Things came to pass : As the King one Day a Hunting was , With his Lords and noble Train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no Company then With him at home , but and old Man ; And when he found the House was clear , He took a Lute that he had near . Upon the Lute sweet William play'd , And to the same he sung and said , With a most sweet melodious Voice , Which made the old Man to rejoice . ' My Father was as brave a Lord , ' As ever Europe could afford : ' My Mother was a Lady bright ; ' My Husband was a valiant Knight , ' And I myself a Lady gay , ' Bedeck'd with gorgeous rich Array ; ' The bravest Lady in the Land ' Had no more Pleasure at Command . ' I had my Music every Day , ' Harmonious Lessons for to play : ' I had my Virgins fair and free , ' Continually to wait on me . ' But now , alas ! my Husband's dead , ' And all my Friends are from me fled : ' My former Joys are past and gone ; ' For now I am a Serving Man. At last the King from Hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for this good old Man , And thus to speak the King began . What News , what News , old Man , said he , What News hast thou to tell to me ? Brave News , the old Man he did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tell'st to me , I'll make thee Lord of high Degree : But if thy Words do prove a Lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up presently . But when the King the Truth had found , His Joys did more and more abound : According as the old Man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Therefore the King , without Delay , Put on her gallant rich Array , And on her Head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then , for fear of further Strife , He took sweet William for his Wife : The like before was never seen ; A Serving-Man to become a Queen . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 