The Noble Achievements of King Arthur , and his Knights of the Round Table . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . WHen Arthur first in court began , and was approved King , By force of arms great victories wone , and conquest home did bring : Then into Britain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him , which were of the Round Table . And many jousts and tournaments , before him there were pressed , Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the rest . But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of arms all others did excel ; When he had rested him a while , to play , and game , and sport , He thought he would approve himself in some advent'rous sor He armed road in forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of adventures great , whereto he gave good ear ; Why should not I ? ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither , Thou seem'st , quoth she , a Knight right good and I will bring thee thither . Whereas the mightiest Knight does dwell that now is of great fame , Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art , and then what is thy name ? My name is Lancelot du Lake . Quoth she , It likes me then , Here dwells a Knight that never was o'er-matht of any Man : Who hath in prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound , Knights of King Arthur's Court they be , and of the Table round : She brought him to a river then , and also to a tree , Whereas a copper-bason hung , his Fellows shields to see . He struck so hard the basin broke ; when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a horse before him straight , whereon a Knight was bound : Sir Knight , ( then said Sir Lancelot , ) bring me that Horseload hither ; And lay him down , and let him rest , we'll try our force together : For as I understand , thou hast , as far as thou art able , Done great despite and shame unto the Knights of the Round Table . If thou art of the Table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy Fellowship , I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by ; They put their spurs unto their steeds , and each at other fly . They couch their spears , and horses run , as though they had been thunder ; And each struck then upon their shields , wherewith they break asunder : Their horses backs break under them , the Knights they were aston'd ; To avoid their Horses they made haste , to fight upon the ground : They took them to their shields full fast , their swords they drew out then , With mighty strokes most eagerly , each one at other run : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their swords a while , quoth Tarquin , Hold thy hand , And tell to me what I shall ask . Say on , quoth Lancelot tho' . Thou art , quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know ; And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is the Knight thou hatest so , I pray thee show to me ? His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my Brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest , I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now of King Arthur's Table round , King Hand's Son of Benwake : And I defy thee , do thy worst . Would , would , quoth Tarquin tho' , One of us two shall end our lives , before that we do go : If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore thou thyself defend , for now I do defy thee . They hurled then together fast , like two wild boars so rashing , And with their swords and shields they ran at one another slashing . The ground besprikled was with blood , Tarquin began to faint , For he had backed and boar his shield so low he did repent ; Which soon espy'd Lancelot tho' , he leapt upon him then , He pull'd him down upon his knee , and rushed off his helm ; And then he struck his neck in two , and when he had done so , From prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot deliver'd tho' . The Noble Achievements of King Arthur , and his Knights of the Round Table . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . WHen Arthur first in court began , and was approved King , By force of arms great victories wone , and conquest home did bring : Then into Britain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him , which were of the Round Table . And many jousts and tournaments , before him there were pressed , Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the rest . But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of arms all others did excel ; When he had rested him a while , to play , and game , and sport , He thought he would approve himself in some advent'rous sor He armed road in forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of adventures great , whereto he gave good ear ; Why should not I ? ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither , Thou seem'st , quoth she , a Knight right good and I will bring thee thither . Whereas the mightiest Knight does dwell that now is of great fame , Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art , and then what is thy name ? My name is Lancelot du Lake . Quoth she , It likes me then , Here dwells a Knight that never was o'er-matht of any Man : Who hath in prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound , Knights of King Arthur's Court they be , and of the Table round : She brought him to a river then , and also to a tree , Whereas a copper-bason hung , his Fellows shields to see . He struck so hard the basin broke ; when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a horse before him straight , whereon a Knight was bound : Sir Knight , ( then said Sir Lancelot , ) bring me that Horseload hither ; And lay him down , and let him rest , we'll try our force together : For as I understand , thou hast , as far as thou art able , Done great despite and shame unto the Knights of the Round Table . If thou art of the Table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy Fellowship , I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by ; They put their spurs unto their steeds , and each at other fly . They couch their spears , and horses run , as though they had been thunder ; And each struck then upon their shields , wherewith they break asunder : Their horses backs break under them , the Knights they were aston'd ; To avoid their Horses they made haste , to fight upon the ground : They took them to their shields full fast , their swords they drew out then , With mighty strokes most eagerly , each one at other run : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their swords a while , quoth Tarquin , Hold thy hand , And tell to me what I shall ask . Say on , quoth Lancelot tho' . Thou art , quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know ; And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is the Knight thou hatest so , I pray thee show to me ? His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my Brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest , I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now of King Arthur's Table round , King Hand's Son of Benwake : And I defy thee , do thy worst . Would , would , quoth Tarquin tho' , One of us two shall end our lives , before that we do go : If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore thou thyself defend , for now I do defy thee . They hurled then together fast , like two wild boars so rashing , And with their swords and shields they ran at one another slashing . The ground besprikled was with blood , Tarquin began to faint , For he had backed and boar his shield so low he did repent ; Which soon espy'd Lancelot tho' , he leapt upon him then , He pull'd him down upon his knee , and rushed off his helm ; And then he struck his neck in two , and when he had done so , From prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot deliver'd tho' . 