A Godly WARNING for all MAIDENS , by the Example of GOD's Judgement showed on Jerman's Wife of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who , lying in Childbed , was born away , and never herd of after . To the Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc YOu dainty Dams so finely fram'd , of Beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , like lambs in Cupid's fold , Here is a Lesson to be learn'd , a Lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind : Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , for beauty without peer ; Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Dame she was belov'd of many in that place , And many sought in marriagebed her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome Youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to make a married Wife , unto this Maiden came . Such love and licking there was found , that he from all the rest , Had stol'n away the Maiden's heart , and she did love him best ; Then plighted Promise secretly did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , this true love's knot undo . He brake a piece of Gold in twain , one half to her he gave , 'The other as a Pledge , quoth he , 'dear heart my self will have . 'If I do break my Vow , quoth she , while I remain alive , 'May never thing I take in hand 'be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and then this Maid began To settle love and liking too upon another Man : One Jerman who a widower was , he Husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better in degree . Her Vows and Promise lately made , to Bateman she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his she utterly defi'd : 'Well then , quoth he , if it be so 'that you will me forsake , 'And like a false and forsworn wretch 'another Husband take : 'Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , 'for surely I will have 'Thee either now alive or dead , 'when I am laid in grave ; 'Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , 'therefore be well assur'd , 'When for thy sake thou hear'st report , 'what torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , and finesht up his life , That very day she married was , and made old Jerman's wife : For with a strangling-cord , God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , before the Bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that one day of comfort find ; And wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly Ghost appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie , betwixt her Husband's arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms : Great cries and grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , 'O thou art she that I must have ; 'and will not be deney'd . But she then being big with Child , was for the Infant's sake , Preserved from the Spirit's power , no vengeance could it take . The Babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so , His Mother's body from the Fiend that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed , Her care and grief began anew , and further sorrow bred . And of her Friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay , 'Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , 'I shall be born away . 'Here comes the spirit of my Love , 'with pale and ghastly face , 'Who tiil he bear me hence away , 'will not depart this place : 'Alive or dead I am his right , 'and he will surely have , 'In spite of me and all the World , 'what I by Promise gave . 'O watch with me this night , I pray , 'and see you do not sleep , 'No longer then you be awake , 'my body can you keep All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The Child bed-woman that woeful night from thence was born away : And to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet in any Age befell . You Maidens that desire to love , and would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love by no means do refuse . For God that hears all secret Oaths , will dreadful Vengeance take , On such that of a wilful Vow doe slender reckoning make . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . A Godly WARNING for all MAIDENS , by the Example of GOD's Judgement showed on Jerman's Wife of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who , lying in Childbed , was born away , and never herd of after . To the Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc YOu dainty Dams so finely fram'd , of Beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , like lambs in Cupid's fold , Here is a Lesson to be learn'd , a Lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind : Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , for beauty without peer ; Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Dame she was belov'd of many in that place , And many sought in marriagebed her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome Youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to make a married Wife , unto this Maiden came . Such love and licking there was found , that he from all the rest , Had stol'n away the Maiden's heart , and she did love him best ; Then plighted Promise secretly did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , this true love's knot undo . He brake a piece of Gold in twain , one half to her he gave , 'The other as a Pledge , quoth he , 'dear heart my self will have . 'If I do break my Vow , quoth she , while I remain alive , 'May never thing I take in hand 'be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and then this Maid began To settle love and liking too upon another Man : One Jerman who a widower was , he Husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better in degree . Her Vows and Promise lately made , to Bateman she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his she utterly defi'd : 'Well then , quoth he , if it be so 'that you will me forsake , 'And like a false and forsworn wretch 'another Husband take : 'Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , 'for surely I will have 'Thee either now alive or dead , 'when I am laid in grave ; 'Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , 'therefore be well assur'd , 'When for thy sake thou hear'st report , 'what torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , and finesht up his life , That very day she married was , and made old Jerman's wife : For with a strangling-cord , God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , before the Bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that one day of comfort find ; And wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly Ghost appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie , betwixt her Husband's arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms : Great cries and grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , 'O thou art she that I must have ; 'and will not be deney'd . But she then being big with Child , was for the Infant's sake , Preserved from the Spirit's power , no vengeance could it take . The Babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so , His Mother's body from the Fiend that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed , Her care and grief began anew , and further sorrow bred . And of her Friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay , 'Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , 'I shall be born away . 'Here comes the spirit of my Love , 'with pale and ghastly face , 'Who tiil he bear me hence away , 'will not depart this place : 'Alive or dead I am his right , 'and he will surely have , 'In spite of me and all the World , 'what I by Promise gave . 'O watch with me this night , I pray , 'and see you do not sleep , 'No longer then you be awake , 'my body can you keep All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The Child bed-woman that woeful night from thence was born away : And to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet in any Age befell . You Maidens that desire to love , and would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love by no means do refuse . For God that hears all secret Oaths , will dreadful Vengeance take , On such that of a wilful Vow doe slender reckoning make . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . A Godly WARNING for all MAIDENS , by the Example of GOD's Judgement showed on Jerman's Wife of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who , lying in Childbed , was born away , and never herd of after . To the Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc YOu dainty Dams so finely fram'd , of Beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , like lambs in Cupid's fold , Here is a Lesson to be learn'd , a Lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind : Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , for beauty without peer ; Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Dame she was belov'd of many in that place , And many sought in marriagebed her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome Youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to make a married Wife , unto this Maiden came . Such love and licking there was found , that he from all the rest , Had stol'n away the Maiden's heart , and she did love him best ; Then plighted Promise secretly did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , this true love's knot undo . He brake a piece of Gold in twain , one half to her he gave , 'The other as a Pledge , quoth he , 'dear heart my self will have . 'If I do break my Vow , quoth she , while I remain alive , 'May never thing I take in hand 'be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and then this Maid began To settle love and liking too upon another Man : One Jerman who a widower was , he Husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better in degree . Her Vows and Promise lately made , to Bateman she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his she utterly defi'd : 'Well then , quoth he , if it be so 'that you will me forsake , 'And like a false and forsworn wretch 'another Husband take : 'Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , 'for surely I will have 'Thee either now alive or dead , 'when I am laid in grave ; 'Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , 'therefore be well assur'd , 'When for thy sake thou hear'st report , 'what torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , and finesht up his life , That very day she married was , and made old Jerman's wife : For with a strangling-cord , God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , before the Bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that one day of comfort find ; And wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly Ghost appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie , betwixt her Husband's arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms : Great cries and grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , 'O thou art she that I must have ; 'and will not be deney'd . But she then being big with Child , was for the Infant's sake , Preserved from the Spirit's power , no vengeance could it take . The Babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so , His Mother's body from the Fiend that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed , Her care and grief began anew , and further sorrow bred . And of her Friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay , 'Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , 'I shall be born away . 'Here comes the spirit of my Love , 'with pale and ghastly face , 'Who tiil he bear me hence away , 'will not depart this place : 'Alive or dead I am his right , 'and he will surely have , 'In spite of me and all the World , 'what I by Promise gave . 'O watch with me this night , I pray , 'and see you do not sleep , 'No longer then you be awake , 'my body can you keep All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The Child bed-woman that woeful night from thence was born away : And to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet in any Age befell . You Maidens that desire to love , and would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love by no means do refuse . For God that hears all secret Oaths , will dreadful Vengeance take , On such that of a wilful Vow doe slender reckoning make . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . A Godly WARNING for all MAIDENS , by the Example of GOD's Judgement showed on Jerman's Wife of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who , lying in Childbed , was born away , and never herd of after . To the Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc YOu dainty Dams so finely fram'd , of Beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , like lambs in Cupid's fold , Here is a Lesson to be learn'd , a Lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind : Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame , for beauty without peer ; Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Dame she was belov'd of many in that place , And many sought in marriagebed her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome Youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to make a married Wife , unto this Maiden came . Such love and licking there was found , that he from all the rest , Had stol'n away the Maiden's heart , and she did love him best ; Then plighted Promise secretly did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , this true love's knot undo . He brake a piece of Gold in twain , one half to her he gave , 'The other as a Pledge , quoth he , 'dear heart my self will have . 'If I do break my Vow , quoth she , while I remain alive , 'May never thing I take in hand 'be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and then this Maid began To settle love and liking too upon another Man : One Jerman who a widower was , he Husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better in degree . Her Vows and Promise lately made , to Bateman she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his she utterly defi'd : 'Well then , quoth he , if it be so 'that you will me forsake , 'And like a false and forsworn wretch 'another Husband take : 'Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , 'for surely I will have 'Thee either now alive or dead , 'when I am laid in grave ; 'Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , 'therefore be well assur'd , 'When for thy sake thou hear'st report , 'what torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , and finesht up his life , That very day she married was , and made old Jerman's wife : For with a strangling-cord , God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , before the Bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that one day of comfort find ; And wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly Ghost appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie , betwixt her Husband's arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms : Great cries and grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , 'O thou art she that I must have ; 'and will not be deney'd . But she then being big with Child , was for the Infant's sake , Preserved from the Spirit's power , no vengeance could it take . The Babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so , His Mother's body from the Fiend that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed , Her care and grief began anew , and further sorrow bred . And of her Friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay , 'Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , 'I shall be born away . 'Here comes the spirit of my Love , 'with pale and ghastly face , 'Who tiil he bear me hence away , 'will not depart this place : 'Alive or dead I am his right , 'and he will surely have , 'In spite of me and all the World , 'what I by Promise gave . 'O watch with me this night , I pray , 'and see you do not sleep , 'No longer then you be awake , 'my body can you keep All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The Child bed-woman that woeful night from thence was born away : And to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet in any Age befell . You Maidens that desire to love , and would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love by no means do refuse . For God that hears all secret Oaths , will dreadful Vengeance take , On such that of a wilful Vow doe slender reckoning make . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 