The WANDERING JEW ; Or , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem . Who lived when Our Saviour JESUS Christ was Crucified , and by him appointed to ] Wander till his Coming Again . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live ; And for the sins of all the World His own dear life did give . The wicked Jews with scoffs and scorns , Did daily him molest ; That never till he left his life , Our Saviour could have rest . Repent therefore , Old England , Repent while you have space , And do not like the wicked Jews , Despise God's proffer'd Grace . When they had crown'd his head with thorns , And scourg'd him with disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth Unto his dying place . There thousand thousands in the street , Did see him pass along . Yet not one gentle heart was there , Who pitied his wrong ------ Repent , etc Both old and young reviled him , As thro' the streets he went ; And nothing found but churlish taunts , By everyone's consent . His own dear cross he boar himself , A burden far too great ; Which caus'd him in the streets to faint With blood and water sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for rest , For to ease his burthen'd soul , Upon a stone , the which a wretch Did churlishly control . And said , Away thou King of Jews , You shall not rest you here ; Pass on , your exeeution place You see now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shall walk And have no Journey stayed . With that this cursed Shoemaker , For offering Christ this Wrong , Lest Wife and Children , house and all , And went from thence along . So when he had the precious blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the cross his body nail'd . Away with speed he fled , Without returning back again Unto his dwelling place , And Wandereth up and down the World A renegade most base . No resting could he find at all , Nor ease nor heart's content , Nor house nor home nor dwelling place , But Wandering forth he went . From Town to Town in foreign lands , With grieved conscience still . Repenting for the henious guilt Of his forepassed ill . Thus after some ages past , With Wandering up and down , He once again desired to see Jerusalem's fair Town . But finding it was quite destroy'd , He Wandered full of Woe ; Our Saviour's Words which he had spoke To verifiy and show . I'll rest said he , but thou shalt walk , So does the Wandering JEW , From place to place , but cannot stay , For seeing countries new . Declaring still the power of him , Where'er he comes or goes , And all things done in the East , Since Christ's death he does show . The world he still does compass round , And see these countries strange , Who hearing of the name of Christ , Their idol Gods do change . To whom he hath told wondrous things , Of time before past and gone , And to the princes of the World , Declar'd his cause of Moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd , And yield his mortal Breath ; But as the Lord had thus decrecd , He must not yet see Death . For neither looks he young or old , But as he did those times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross For mortal Sinners crimes He passed many foreign lands , Arabia , Egypt , Africa , Greece , Syria , and Greet Thrace , And quite thro' Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed Apostles dear , Where he hath told our Saviours words , In the countries far and near , And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane town , And now in Fanders as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned Men with him confer , Of those his lingering days , And wonder much to hear him tell His Journeys and his ways , If people give this Jew and alms , The most that he will take , Is not above a groat a day , Which he for Jesus sake , Does kindly give unto the poor , And therefore make no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ Of him hath daily care ; He was not seen to laugh or smile , But Weep and make great moan . Lamenting still his Misery's , And Days far spent and gone . If he hears any one blaspheme , Or takes God's name in vain , He tells them that they crucify Our Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim Death said he , As these my eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you , His torments thinks upon . And suffer for his sake all pains , All torments and all woes : These are his Words , and this his life , Whene'er he comes or goes . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Bow Lane , London . The WANDERING JEW ; Or , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem . Who lived when Our Saviour JESUS Christ was Crucified , and by him appointed to ] Wander till his Coming Again . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live ; And for the sins of all the World His own dear life did give . The wicked Jews with scoffs and scorns , Did daily him molest ; That never till he left his life , Our Saviour could have rest . Repent therefore , Old England , Repent while you have space , And do not like the wicked Jews , Despise God's proffer'd Grace . When they had crown'd his head with thorns , And scourg'd him with disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth Unto his dying place . There thousand thousands in the street , Did see him pass along . Yet not one gentle heart was there , Who pitied his wrong ------ Repent , etc Both old and young reviled him , As thro' the streets he went ; And nothing found but churlish taunts , By everyone's consent . His own dear cross he boar himself , A burden far too great ; Which caus'd him in the streets to faint With blood and water sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for rest , For to ease his burthen'd soul , Upon a stone , the which a wretch Did churlishly control . And said , Away thou King of Jews , You shall not rest you here ; Pass on , your exeeution place You see now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shall walk And have no Journey stayed . With that this cursed Shoemaker , For offering Christ this Wrong , Lest Wife and Children , house and all , And went from thence along . So when he had the precious blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the cross his body nail'd . Away with speed he fled , Without returning back again Unto his dwelling place , And Wandereth up and down the World A renegade most base . No resting could he find at all , Nor ease nor heart's content , Nor house nor home nor dwelling place , But Wandering forth he went . From Town to Town in foreign lands , With grieved conscience still . Repenting for the henious guilt Of his forepassed ill . Thus after some ages past , With Wandering up and down , He once again desired to see Jerusalem's fair Town . But finding it was quite destroy'd , He Wandered full of Woe ; Our Saviour's Words which he had spoke To verifiy and show . I'll rest said he , but thou shalt walk , So does the Wandering JEW , From place to place , but cannot stay , For seeing countries new . Declaring still the power of him , Where'er he comes or goes , And all things done in the East , Since Christ's death he does show . The world he still does compass round , And see these countries strange , Who hearing of the name of Christ , Their idol Gods do change . To whom he hath told wondrous things , Of time before past and gone , And to the princes of the World , Declar'd his cause of Moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd , And yield his mortal Breath ; But as the Lord had thus decrecd , He must not yet see Death . For neither looks he young or old , But as he did those times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross For mortal Sinners crimes He passed many foreign lands , Arabia , Egypt , Africa , Greece , Syria , and Greet Thrace , And quite thro' Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed Apostles dear , Where he hath told our Saviours words , In the countries far and near , And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane town , And now in Fanders as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned Men with him confer , Of those his lingering days , And wonder much to hear him tell His Journeys and his ways , If people give this Jew and alms , The most that he will take , Is not above a groat a day , Which he for Jesus sake , Does kindly give unto the poor , And therefore make no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ Of him hath daily care ; He was not seen to laugh or smile , But Weep and make great moan . Lamenting still his Misery's , And Days far spent and gone . If he hears any one blaspheme , Or takes God's name in vain , He tells them that they crucify Our Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim Death said he , As these my eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you , His torments thinks upon . And suffer for his sake all pains , All torments and all woes : These are his Words , and this his life , Whene'er he comes or goes . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Bow Lane , London . 