( 1 ) ( 1 ) The Glorious Warrior : OR , A Ballad in Praise of General Stanhope ; Dedicated to all who have Votes for Parliament-Men in the City of Westminster . To the Tune of Fair Rosamund . I . WHen Anne , a Princess of Renown , Sat on the British Throne , The Britains many Battles fought , And many Battles wone . 2. The Queen had Generals good store , And these were Men of Might ; But none excell'd the Stanhope brave In Counsel or in Fight . 3. The brave Stanhope was he she sent to Spain , with full Command , And bid him fallen upon the French , And beatrice them out of hand . 4. No sooner had she said the Word , But he was out of Sighed , And hasted unto Charles's Camp , With all his Speed and Might . 5. 'Most Noble Prince , I come ( says he ) 'With Anna's full Command . 'The Empress bade me fight your Foes , 'And beatrice them out of hand . 6. 'Brave Stanhope , ( says the King ) I know 'Thy Valour to be grea 'It's fit thy Empress be obey'd , 'Go , act what seems meet . 7. 'With Spanish and with Germane Troops 'Let Britains joined be : 'Led on by such a General , 'They're sure of Victory . 8. Then Stanhope bow'd , and went away , Being full of inward Joys , And to his British Squadrons cries , 'To Horse , To Horse , my Boys . 9. 'The Day's our own , the King gives Leave ''Gainst French to make Attacks : 'Come , follow me , we'll ne're give o're 'Until we see their Backs . 10. Then strait , with glittering Sword in hand , And Pistols by each Side , He gallops towards th' Enemy , As fast as he can ride . 11. The bold Britains their General , In Danger , won't forsake ; But Stanhope follow , in a Crowd , And direful Havoc make . 12. In various Shapes , where Stanhope moves , Slaughter and Death appear : The French no longer can his Rage , Nor furious Onsets , bear . 13. To save themselves , they first give back , Then hasten from the Field ; And to victorious Stanhope's Troops A bloody Victory yield . 14. Brave Stanhope close the Fugitives Pursues with Might and Main . The Fields , the Roads , the Lanes are fill'd With Heaps of Soldiers slave . 15. The Battle now being wone and o're , To Charles the new made King , Great Staremberg the brave Stanhope , Besmear'd with Blood , does bring . 16. 'This , Sir , 's the Man hath done the Deed , 'And mighty Valour shown . Quoth Charles , 'I know it very well ; 'To him I owe my Crown . 'By ( 2 ) 17. 'By you , Sir , I am King of Spain , 'And of my French Foes rid : 'I will reward you like a King ; 'Come with me to Madrid . 18. Whom then , you Men of Westminster , For Burgess can you choose , Like him who Spain from Frenchmens Pride And Thraldom has set lose . 19. Like him , who for all those that trade In Cloth , in Stuffs , in Bays , To Spain , To Spain , has op'd the Way , To his immortal Praise . 20. The Gold and Silver of Peru , Of which the Trade was lost , And which was daily sent to France , To Britain's Grief and Cost , 21. Shall now from Cales and Alicant In English Oaks be borough Such Glorious Things has Stanhope done , Such Wonders he has wrought ! 22. You then who live near River Thames , Near Abby , or Mill-Bank , St. James , St. Anne , the Park , or Strand , Of mean or highest Rank , 23. Don't be ingrate , to one who for His Country takes much Pains , In Places far and wide , but last In Saragossa's Plains . 24. But in the Precincts every where Let it be understood You valve most the Men who do Your Nation the most Good . 25. Let Neighbouring Cities know likewise That you have Wit and Brains ; And won't prefer to brave Stanhope , A Man that selleth Grains . FINIS . London : Printed for S. Popping , at the Black Raven in Paternoster-Row , 1710. ( 1 ) ( 1 ) The Glorious Warrior : OR , A Ballad in Praise of General Stanhope ; Dedicated to all who have Votes for Parliament-Men in the City of Westminster . To the Tune of Fair Rosamund . I . WHen Anne , a Princess of Renown , Sat on the British Throne , The Britains many Battles fought , And many Battles wone . 2. The Queen had Generals good store , And these were Men of Might ; But none excell'd the Stanhope brave In Counsel or in Fight . 3. The brave Stanhope was he she sent to Spain , with full Command , And bid him fallen upon the French , And beatrice them out of hand . 4. No sooner had she said the Word , But he was out of Sighed , And hasted unto Charles's Camp , With all his Speed and Might . 5. 'Most Noble Prince , I come ( says he ) 'With Anna's full Command . 'The Empress bade me fight your Foes , 'And beatrice them out of hand . 6. 'Brave Stanhope , ( says the King ) I know 'Thy Valour to be grea 'It's fit thy Empress be obey'd , 'Go , act what seems meet . 7. 'With Spanish and with Germane Troops 'Let Britains joined be : 'Led on by such a General , 'They're sure of Victory . 8. Then Stanhope bow'd , and went away , Being full of inward Joys , And to his British Squadrons cries , 'To Horse , To Horse , my Boys . 9. 'The Day's our own , the King gives Leave ''Gainst French to make Attacks : 'Come , follow me , we'll ne're give o're 'Until we see their Backs . 10. Then strait , with glittering Sword in hand , And Pistols by each Side , He gallops towards th' Enemy , As fast as he can ride . 11. The bold Britains their General , In Danger , won't forsake ; But Stanhope follow , in a Crowd , And direful Havoc make . 12. In various Shapes , where Stanhope moves , Slaughter and Death appear : The French no longer can his Rage , Nor furious Onsets , bear . 13. To save themselves , they first give back , Then hasten from the Field ; And to victorious Stanhope's Troops A bloody Victory yield . 14. Brave Stanhope close the Fugitives Pursues with Might and Main . The Fields , the Roads , the Lanes are fill'd With Heaps of Soldiers slave . 15. The Battle now being wone and o're , To Charles the new made King , Great Staremberg the brave Stanhope , Besmear'd with Blood , does bring . 16. 'This , Sir , 's the Man hath done the Deed , 'And mighty Valour shown . Quoth Charles , 'I know it very well ; 'To him I owe my Crown . 'By ( 2 ) 17. 'By you , Sir , I am King of Spain , 'And of my French Foes rid : 'I will reward you like a King ; 'Come with me to Madrid . 18. Whom then , you Men of Westminster , For Burgess can you choose , Like him who Spain from Frenchmens Pride And Thraldom has set lose . 19. Like him , who for all those that trade In Cloth , in Stuffs , in Bays , To Spain , To Spain , has op'd the Way , To his immortal Praise . 20. The Gold and Silver of Peru , Of which the Trade was lost , And which was daily sent to France , To Britain's Grief and Cost , 21. Shall now from Cales and Alicant In English Oaks be borough Such Glorious Things has Stanhope done , Such Wonders he has wrought ! 22. You then who live near River Thames , Near Abby , or Mill-Bank , St. James , St. Anne , the Park , or Strand , Of mean or highest Rank , 23. Don't be ingrate , to one who for His Country takes much Pains , In Places far and wide , but last In Saragossa's Plains . 24. But in the Precincts every where Let it be understood You valve most the Men who do Your Nation the most Good . 25. Let Neighbouring Cities know likewise That you have Wit and Brains ; And won't prefer to brave Stanhope , A Man that selleth Grains . FINIS . London : Printed for S. Popping , at the Black Raven in Paternoster-Row , 1710. 