A New BALLAD on the Great Victory at SEA , Obtained over the French by Admiral RUSSEL , May 1692. To the Tune of , Heigh Boys , Up go We . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOU Dukes , and Lords , and English Knights , And Commons of the Nation , That love our Ancient Laws and Rights , And England's Preservation . Admire and praise our Admiral , Who late in Fight at Sea Did more than ere was done before To fix our Liberty . Tho' envy'd by his Foes he was , Who then did know no better , He now has plainly clear'd the Cause To Lord Nottingham by's Letter . He silenc'd Torvil in and hour , Who Signal gave to run ; The Dogs tow'd off , durst Fight no more , Or after fire a Gun. Great Russel came , and saw , and fought , No fear did him surprise ; His Country's good was all his thought , French Power he did despise . No Bribes or Favour him could bring To th' French , or James's Cause ; Let all who favour either , swing , By Justice of our Laws . The Royal Sun did proudly ride Upon the British Sea , They thought that every Wind and Tide To him should subject be : But when brave Russel did Engage The huffing Monsieur's Sun , Our English Seamen by their Rage Made th' sneaking Rascals run . Let the Russel's Name found every where , Immortal be their Fame's ; 'Twas Russel brought to the Lords Bar The Bill t'exclude King James : 'Tis Russel by his Valiant care Reveng'd his Cousin's Blood ; King James too at the Fight did stare , With Teagues that by him stood . To Hastings and to Carter's Fame Great Praises sure are due , They lost in this Illustrious Game What's dear to me , and you . If Hero's then in Battle slave Were most renown'd of old , Why should not these in William's Reign , Who were as brave and bold ? Our Conquering Ships to their own Coast Like Lightning did pursue 'um , While Jemmy pale as any Ghost , Stood on the Shore to view 'um . Our Fire-Ships then on them laid hold , And made a Noble Bonfire , While Monsieurs jabber'd , Dear Joys howl'd To view their First Rates on fire . Our Seamen with true Courage fir'd , Were loath thus to give o're , But having clear'd the Sea , desir'd To swinge the Rogues on Shore . Enough , brave Boys , as you have stood To England's Interest true ; 'Tis England's turn ( and Reason good ) To take fit care of you . Two Years ago the Dutch fought well , ( Herbert was by and saw't ; ) This Year the English boar the Bell , 'Twas their turn , and they fough No difference therefore can there be 'Tween Dutch and English Nation , They'r One by Land , and One by Sea ; Both fight well in their Station . Let all our Merchant's now rejoice , Their Riches will increase ; England and Holland with one voice Do now Command the Seas . With Pleasure we'l enjoy our own , Our Traders all shall smile , For Russel's Courage has left none That can disturb our Isle . The Man that thought himself a God , Has lost his Naval Powers ; They'r now eternally destroy'd , And all the Seas are ours . the French expect to rise no more , The English Tarrs surround you ; No Fleet , nor Cockboat on our Shore , The Powers above confound you . the Jacobites go hang your selves , And ev'ry Jemmy Tory , You strive in vain like senseless Elves T' Eclipse Old England's Glory . But let King WILLIAM still be blessed , And MARY Reign in Peace , And that these Islands may have rest Our Prayers shall never cease . FINIS . London : Printed for A. B. and Sold by Richard Baldwin near the Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane . Where are to be had the following Lists , Viz. Of Their Majesties Forces in Flanders , England , Scotland , and Ireland for the Year 1692. and the Charges of each Regiment . Of Their Majesties and the Dutch Fleet designed for the Line of Battle , for the Year 1692. And a True List of the French Fleet for the Year 1692. From the Copy Printed at Paris by the French King's Order before the late Engage - meant at Sea. A New BALLAD on the Great Victory at SEA , Obtained over the French by Admiral RUSSEL , May 1692. To the Tune of , Heigh Boys , Up go We . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOU Dukes , and Lords , and English Knights , And Commons of the Nation , That love our Ancient Laws and Rights , And England's Preservation . Admire and praise our Admiral , Who late in Fight at Sea Did more than ere was done before To fix our Liberty . Tho' envy'd by his Foes he was , Who then did know no better , He now has plainly clear'd the Cause To Lord Nottingham by's Letter . He silenc'd Torvil in and hour , Who Signal gave to run ; The Dogs tow'd off , durst Fight no more , Or after fire a Gun. Great Russel came , and saw , and fought , No fear did him surprise ; His Country's good was all his thought , French Power he did despise . No Bribes or Favour him could bring To th' French , or James's Cause ; Let all who favour either , swing , By Justice of our Laws . The Royal Sun did proudly ride Upon the British Sea , They thought that every Wind and Tide To him should subject be : But when brave Russel did Engage The huffing Monsieur's Sun , Our English Seamen by their Rage Made th' sneaking Rascals run . Let the Russel's Name found every where , Immortal be their Fame's ; 'Twas Russel brought to the Lords Bar The Bill t'exclude King James : 'Tis Russel by his Valiant care Reveng'd his Cousin's Blood ; King James too at the Fight did stare , With Teagues that by him stood . To Hastings and to Carter's Fame Great Praises sure are due , They lost in this Illustrious Game What's dear to me , and you . If Hero's then in Battle slave Were most renown'd of old , Why should not these in William's Reign , Who were as brave and bold ? Our Conquering Ships to their own Coast Like Lightning did pursue 'um , While Jemmy pale as any Ghost , Stood on the Shore to view 'um . Our Fire-Ships then on them laid hold , And made a Noble Bonfire , While Monsieurs jabber'd , Dear Joys howl'd To view their First Rates on fire . Our Seamen with true Courage fir'd , Were loath thus to give o're , But having clear'd the Sea , desir'd To swinge the Rogues on Shore . Enough , brave Boys , as you have stood To England's Interest true ; 'Tis England's turn ( and Reason good ) To take fit care of you . Two Years ago the Dutch fought well , ( Herbert was by and saw't ; ) This Year the English boar the Bell , 'Twas their turn , and they fough No difference therefore can there be 'Tween Dutch and English Nation , They'r One by Land , and One by Sea ; Both fight well in their Station . Let all our Merchant's now rejoice , Their Riches will increase ; England and Holland with one voice Do now Command the Seas . With Pleasure we'l enjoy our own , Our Traders all shall smile , For Russel's Courage has left none That can disturb our Isle . The Man that thought himself a God , Has lost his Naval Powers ; They'r now eternally destroy'd , And all the Seas are ours . the French expect to rise no more , The English Tarrs surround you ; No Fleet , nor Cockboat on our Shore , The Powers above confound you . the Jacobites go hang your selves , And ev'ry Jemmy Tory , You strive in vain like senseless Elves T' Eclipse Old England's Glory . But let King WILLIAM still be blessed , And MARY Reign in Peace , And that these Islands may have rest Our Prayers shall never cease . FINIS . London : Printed for A. B. and Sold by Richard Baldwin near the Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane . Where are to be had the following Lists , Viz. Of Their Majesties Forces in Flanders , England , Scotland , and Ireland for the Year 1692. and the Charges of each Regiment . Of Their Majesties and the Dutch Fleet designed for the Line of Battle , for the Year 1692. And a True List of the French Fleet for the Year 1692. From the Copy Printed at Paris by the French King's Order before the late Engage - meant at Sea. A New BALLAD on the Great Victory at SEA , Obtained over the French by Admiral RUSSEL , May 1692. To the Tune of , Heigh Boys , Up go We . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOU Dukes , and Lords , and English Knights , And Commons of the Nation , That love our Ancient Laws and Rights , And England's Preservation . Admire and praise our Admiral , Who late in Fight at Sea Did more than ere was done before To fix our Liberty . Tho' envy'd by his Foes he was , Who then did know no better , He now has plainly clear'd the Cause To Lord Nottingham by's Letter . He silenc'd Torvil in and hour , Who Signal gave to run ; The Dogs tow'd off , durst Fight no more , Or after fire a Gun. Great Russel came , and saw , and fought , No fear did him surprise ; His Country's good was all his thought , French Power he did despise . No Bribes or Favour him could bring To th' French , or James's Cause ; Let all who favour either , swing , By Justice of our Laws . The Royal Sun did proudly ride Upon the British Sea , They thought that every Wind and Tide To him should subject be : But when brave Russel did Engage The huffing Monsieur's Sun , Our English Seamen by their Rage Made th' sneaking Rascals run . Let the Russel's Name found every where , Immortal be their Fame's ; 'Twas Russel brought to the Lords Bar The Bill t'exclude King James : 'Tis Russel by his Valiant care Reveng'd his Cousin's Blood ; King James too at the Fight did stare , With Teagues that by him stood . To Hastings and to Carter's Fame Great Praises sure are due , They lost in this Illustrious Game What's dear to me , and you . If Hero's then in Battle slave Were most renown'd of old , Why should not these in William's Reign , Who were as brave and bold ? Our Conquering Ships to their own Coast Like Lightning did pursue 'um , While Jemmy pale as any Ghost , Stood on the Shore to view 'um . Our Fire-Ships then on them laid hold , And made a Noble Bonfire , While Monsieurs jabber'd , Dear Joys howl'd To view their First Rates on fire . Our Seamen with true Courage fir'd , Were loath thus to give o're , But having clear'd the Sea , desir'd To swinge the Rogues on Shore . Enough , brave Boys , as you have stood To England's Interest true ; 'Tis England's turn ( and Reason good ) To take fit care of you . Two Years ago the Dutch fought well , ( Herbert was by and saw't ; ) This Year the English boar the Bell , 'Twas their turn , and they fough No difference therefore can there be 'Tween Dutch and English Nation , They'r One by Land , and One by Sea ; Both fight well in their Station . Let all our Merchant's now rejoice , Their Riches will increase ; England and Holland with one voice Do now Command the Seas . With Pleasure we'l enjoy our own , Our Traders all shall smile , For Russel's Courage has left none That can disturb our Isle . The Man that thought himself a God , Has lost his Naval Powers ; They'r now eternally destroy'd , And all the Seas are ours . the French expect to rise no more , The English Tarrs surround you ; No Fleet , nor Cockboat on our Shore , The Powers above confound you . the Jacobites go hang your selves , And ev'ry Jemmy Tory , You strive in vain like senseless Elves T' Eclipse Old England's Glory . But let King WILLIAM still be blessed , And MARY Reign in Peace , And that these Islands may have rest Our Prayers shall never cease . FINIS . London : Printed for A. B. and Sold by Richard Baldwin near the Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane . Where are to be had the following Lists , Viz. Of Their Majesties Forces in Flanders , England , Scotland , and Ireland for the Year 1692. and the Charges of each Regiment . Of Their Majesties and the Dutch Fleet designed for the Line of Battle , for the Year 1692. And a True List of the French Fleet for the Year 1692. From the Copy Printed at Paris by the French King's Order before the late Engage - meant at Sea. A New BALLAD on the Great Victory at SEA , Obtained over the French by Admiral RUSSEL , May 1692. To the Tune of , Heigh Boys , Up go We . Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOU Dukes , and Lords , and English Knights , And Commons of the Nation , That love our Ancient Laws and Rights , And England's Preservation . Admire and praise our Admiral , Who late in Fight at Sea Did more than ere was done before To fix our Liberty . Tho' envy'd by his Foes he was , Who then did know no better , He now has plainly clear'd the Cause To Lord Nottingham by's Letter . He silenc'd Torvil in and hour , Who Signal gave to run ; The Dogs tow'd off , durst Fight no more , Or after fire a Gun. Great Russel came , and saw , and fought , No fear did him surprise ; His Country's good was all his thought , French Power he did despise . No Bribes or Favour him could bring To th' French , or James's Cause ; Let all who favour either , swing , By Justice of our Laws . The Royal Sun did proudly ride Upon the British Sea , They thought that every Wind and Tide To him should subject be : But when brave Russel did Engage The huffing Monsieur's Sun , Our English Seamen by their Rage Made th' sneaking Rascals run . Let the Russel's Name found every where , Immortal be their Fame's ; 'Twas Russel brought to the Lords Bar The Bill t'exclude King James : 'Tis Russel by his Valiant care Reveng'd his Cousin's Blood ; King James too at the Fight did stare , With Teagues that by him stood . To Hastings and to Carter's Fame Great Praises sure are due , They lost in this Illustrious Game What's dear to me , and you . If Hero's then in Battle slave Were most renown'd of old , Why should not these in William's Reign , Who were as brave and bold ? Our Conquering Ships to their own Coast Like Lightning did pursue 'um , While Jemmy pale as any Ghost , Stood on the Shore to view 'um . Our Fire-Ships then on them laid hold , And made a Noble Bonfire , While Monsieurs jabber'd , Dear Joys howl'd To view their First Rates on fire . Our Seamen with true Courage fir'd , Were loath thus to give o're , But having clear'd the Sea , desir'd To swinge the Rogues on Shore . Enough , brave Boys , as you have stood To England's Interest true ; 'Tis England's turn ( and Reason good ) To take fit care of you . Two Years ago the Dutch fought well , ( Herbert was by and saw't ; ) This Year the English boar the Bell , 'Twas their turn , and they fough No difference therefore can there be 'Tween Dutch and English Nation , They'r One by Land , and One by Sea ; Both fight well in their Station . Let all our Merchant's now rejoice , Their Riches will increase ; England and Holland with one voice Do now Command the Seas . With Pleasure we'l enjoy our own , Our Traders all shall smile , For Russel's Courage has left none That can disturb our Isle . The Man that thought himself a God , Has lost his Naval Powers ; They'r now eternally destroy'd , And all the Seas are ours . the French expect to rise no more , The English Tarrs surround you ; No Fleet , nor Cockboat on our Shore , The Powers above confound you . the Jacobites go hang your selves , And ev'ry Jemmy Tory , You strive in vain like senseless Elves T' Eclipse Old England's Glory . But let King WILLIAM still be blessed , And MARY Reign in Peace , And that these Islands may have rest Our Prayers shall never cease . FINIS . London : Printed for A. B. and Sold by Richard Baldwin near the Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane . Where are to be had the following Lists , Viz. Of Their Majesties Forces in Flanders , England , Scotland , and Ireland for the Year 1692. and the Charges of each Regiment . Of Their Majesties and the Dutch Fleet designed for the Line of Battle , for the Year 1692. And a True List of the French Fleet for the Year 1692. From the Copy Printed at Paris by the French King's Order before the late Engage - meant at Sea. 