YOUNG BATEMAN's GHOST ; Or , A Godly Warning to all Maidens , by the Example of God's Judgement shown upon one German's Wife , of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who lately lying in Child bed , was born away , and never herd of after . [ Tune Flying Fame . YOU dainty dams so finely fram'd , Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs of Cupid's fold ; Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in the mind ; For such as will prove false in love , And bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely dame , None with her could compare , Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest face , the falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This gallant dame she was belov'd Of many of that place , And many sought in marriage bed , Her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome youth , Young Bateman call'd by name In hope's she would become his wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stolen away the maiden's heart , And she did love him bes Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , This true love knot undo . He brake a piece of gold in twain , One half to her her gave , The other as a pledge quoth he , Dear love , myself will have . If I do break my vow quoth she , While I remain alive , May ne'er a thing I take in hand , Be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , And then the maid began To settle love and liking to , Upon another man : One German , who a widower was , Her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , And better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman , she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his , She utterly defy'd : Well then , quoth he , if it be so That thou wilt me forsake , And like a false forsworn wretch , Another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , When I'm laid in the grave : Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for my sake thou hear'st report , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , And finished his life , That very day she married was , And made old German's wife ; For with a strangling cord , God wot , Great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , that she could never after that , one day of comfort find : and wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise . young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lie , betwixt her husband's arms , in hope's thereby to sleep and rest , in safety without harms : great cries , and grievous groans she herd and voice , that sometime said , o , thou art she that I must have , and will not be deny'd . But she being now grown big with child , Was for the infant's sake , Preserved from the spirit's power , No vengeance could it take : The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , His mother's body from the fiend , That sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , And safely brought to bed , Her cares and grief began anew , And further sorrow bred ; And of her friends she did entreat , Desiring them to stay , Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , With pale and ghastly face , Who till he carry me henceforth , Will not depart this place : Alive or Dead , I'm his by right , And he will surely have , In spite of me , and all the world , What I by promise gave . Oh! watch with me this night I pray , And see you do not sleep ; No longer then you do not wake , My body can you keep : All promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep Sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The child bed woman , that woeful night , From thence was born away ; And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet , In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love , By no means do refuse ; For God that hears all secret oaths , Will dreadful vengeance take , On such that of a woeful vow , Do slender Reckoning make . YOUNG BATEMAN's GHOST ; Or , A Godly Warning to all Maidens , by the Example of God's Judgement shown upon one German's Wife , of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who lately lying in Child bed , was born away , and never herd of after . [ Tune Flying Fame . YOU dainty dams so finely fram'd , Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs of Cupid's fold ; Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in the mind ; For such as will prove false in love , And bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely dame , None with her could compare , Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest face , the falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This gallant dame she was belov'd Of many of that place , And many sought in marriage bed , Her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome youth , Young Bateman call'd by name In hope's she would become his wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stolen away the maiden's heart , And she did love him bes Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , This true love knot undo . He brake a piece of gold in twain , One half to her her gave , The other as a pledge quoth he , Dear love , myself will have . If I do break my vow quoth she , While I remain alive , May ne'er a thing I take in hand , Be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , And then the maid began To settle love and liking to , Upon another man : One German , who a widower was , Her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , And better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman , she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his , She utterly defy'd : Well then , quoth he , if it be so That thou wilt me forsake , And like a false forsworn wretch , Another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , When I'm laid in the grave : Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for my sake thou hear'st report , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , And finished his life , That very day she married was , And made old German's wife ; For with a strangling cord , God wot , Great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , that she could never after that , one day of comfort find : and wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise . young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lie , betwixt her husband's arms , in hope's thereby to sleep and rest , in safety without harms : great cries , and grievous groans she herd and voice , that sometime said , o , thou art she that I must have , and will not be deny'd . But she being now grown big with child , Was for the infant's sake , Preserved from the spirit's power , No vengeance could it take : The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , His mother's body from the fiend , That sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , And safely brought to bed , Her cares and grief began anew , And further sorrow bred ; And of her friends she did entreat , Desiring them to stay , Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , With pale and ghastly face , Who till he carry me henceforth , Will not depart this place : Alive or Dead , I'm his by right , And he will surely have , In spite of me , and all the world , What I by promise gave . Oh! watch with me this night I pray , And see you do not sleep ; No longer then you do not wake , My body can you keep : All promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep Sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The child bed woman , that woeful night , From thence was born away ; And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet , In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love , By no means do refuse ; For God that hears all secret oaths , Will dreadful vengeance take , On such that of a woeful vow , Do slender Reckoning make . YOUNG BATEMAN's GHOST ; Or , A Godly Warning to all Maidens , by the Example of God's Judgement shown upon one German's Wife , of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who lately lying in Child bed , was born away , and never herd of after . [ Tune Flying Fame . YOU dainty dams so finely fram'd , Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs of Cupid's fold ; Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in the mind ; For such as will prove false in love , And bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely dame , None with her could compare , Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest face , the falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This gallant dame she was belov'd Of many of that place , And many sought in marriage bed , Her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome youth , Young Bateman call'd by name In hope's she would become his wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stolen away the maiden's heart , And she did love him bes Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , This true love knot undo . He brake a piece of gold in twain , One half to her her gave , The other as a pledge quoth he , Dear love , myself will have . If I do break my vow quoth she , While I remain alive , May ne'er a thing I take in hand , Be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , And then the maid began To settle love and liking to , Upon another man : One German , who a widower was , Her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , And better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman , she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his , She utterly defy'd : Well then , quoth he , if it be so That thou wilt me forsake , And like a false forsworn wretch , Another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , When I'm laid in the grave : Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for my sake thou hear'st report , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , And finished his life , That very day she married was , And made old German's wife ; For with a strangling cord , God wot , Great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , that she could never after that , one day of comfort find : and wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise . young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lie , betwixt her husband's arms , in hope's thereby to sleep and rest , in safety without harms : great cries , and grievous groans she herd and voice , that sometime said , o , thou art she that I must have , and will not be deny'd . But she being now grown big with child , Was for the infant's sake , Preserved from the spirit's power , No vengeance could it take : The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , His mother's body from the fiend , That sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , And safely brought to bed , Her cares and grief began anew , And further sorrow bred ; And of her friends she did entreat , Desiring them to stay , Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , With pale and ghastly face , Who till he carry me henceforth , Will not depart this place : Alive or Dead , I'm his by right , And he will surely have , In spite of me , and all the world , What I by promise gave . Oh! watch with me this night I pray , And see you do not sleep ; No longer then you do not wake , My body can you keep : All promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep Sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The child bed woman , that woeful night , From thence was born away ; And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet , In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love , By no means do refuse ; For God that hears all secret oaths , Will dreadful vengeance take , On such that of a woeful vow , Do slender Reckoning make . YOUNG BATEMAN's GHOST ; Or , A Godly Warning to all Maidens , by the Example of God's Judgement shown upon one German's Wife , of Clifton , in the County of Nottingham , who lately lying in Child bed , was born away , and never herd of after . [ Tune Flying Fame . YOU dainty dams so finely fram'd , Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs of Cupid's fold ; Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in the mind ; For such as will prove false in love , And bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely dame , None with her could compare , Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest face , the falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This gallant dame she was belov'd Of many of that place , And many sought in marriage bed , Her body to embrace : At last a proper handsome youth , Young Bateman call'd by name In hope's she would become his wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stolen away the maiden's heart , And she did love him bes Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself , This true love knot undo . He brake a piece of gold in twain , One half to her her gave , The other as a pledge quoth he , Dear love , myself will have . If I do break my vow quoth she , While I remain alive , May ne'er a thing I take in hand , Be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , And then the maid began To settle love and liking to , Upon another man : One German , who a widower was , Her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , And better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman , she deny'd ; And in despite of him and his , She utterly defy'd : Well then , quoth he , if it be so That thou wilt me forsake , And like a false forsworn wretch , Another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , When I'm laid in the grave : Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for my sake thou hear'st report , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman dy'd for love , And finished his life , That very day she married was , And made old German's wife ; For with a strangling cord , God wot , Great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , that she could never after that , one day of comfort find : and wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise . young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lie , betwixt her husband's arms , in hope's thereby to sleep and rest , in safety without harms : great cries , and grievous groans she herd and voice , that sometime said , o , thou art she that I must have , and will not be deny'd . But she being now grown big with child , Was for the infant's sake , Preserved from the spirit's power , No vengeance could it take : The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , His mother's body from the fiend , That sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , And safely brought to bed , Her cares and grief began anew , And further sorrow bred ; And of her friends she did entreat , Desiring them to stay , Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , With pale and ghastly face , Who till he carry me henceforth , Will not depart this place : Alive or Dead , I'm his by right , And he will surely have , In spite of me , and all the world , What I by promise gave . Oh! watch with me this night I pray , And see you do not sleep ; No longer then you do not wake , My body can you keep : All promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep Sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The child bed woman , that woeful night , From thence was born away ; And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet , In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good Husbands choose , To him that you do vow to love , By no means do refuse ; For God that hears all secret oaths , Will dreadful vengeance take , On such that of a woeful vow , Do slender Reckoning make . 