London's Lamentation : OR , And Excellent New Song On the Loss of LONDON's CHARTER . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . YOu Freemen , and Master's , and Prentices mourn , For now You are left with your Charter forlorn : Since London was London , I dare boldly say , For your Riots you never so dearly did pay ; In Westminster-hall Your Dagon did fallen , That caus'd You to Riot and Mutiny all : O London ! O London ! Thou'dst better had None , Than thus with Thy Charter to vie with the Throne . II O London ! O London ! how cou'dst Thou pretend Against thy Defender Thy Crimes to defend ? Thy Freedoms & Rights from kind Princes did spring , And yet in contempt Thou withstandest Thy King : With bold brazen Face They pleaded Thy Case , In hope's to the Charter the King wou'd give place : O London ! Thou'dst better no Charter at all , Than thus for Rebellion thy Charter shou'd fallen . III . Since Britains to London came over to dwell , You had and old Charter , to buy and to fell ; And while in Allegiance each honest man lives , Then you had a Charter for Lord May'r and Shrieves : But when , with Your Pride , You began to backslide , And London of Factions did run with the Tide , Then London , O London ! 'tis time to withdraw , Lest the flood of Your Factions the Land overflow . IV. When Faction and fury of Rebels prevail'd ; When Cobblers were Kings , and Monarchs were jayl'd ; When Master's in Tumults their Prentices led , And the Tail did begin to make war with the Head ; When Thomas and Kate Did bring in their Plate , T'uphold the Old Cause of the Rump of the State , Then tell me , O London ! I prithee now tell , Hadst thou e'r a Charter to Fight and Rebel ? V. When zealous Sham-Sheriffs the City oppose , In spite of the Charter , the King , and the Laws , And make such a Riot and Rout in the Town , That never before such a Racket was known ; When Ryoters dare Arrest the Lord May'r , And force the King's Substitute out of the Chair : O London ! whose Charter is now on the Lees , Did Your Charter e'r warrant such actions as these ? VI . Alas for the Brothers ! what now must they do , For choosing Whig-Sheriffs and Burgesses too ? The Charter with Patience is gone to the pot , And the Doctor is lost in the depth of the Plo St. Stephens his Flail No more will prevail , Nor Sir Robert's Dagger , the Charter to bail : O London ! Thou'dst better have suffer'd by Fire , Than thus thy old Charter shou'd stick in the Mire . VII . But since with your Folly , your Faction and Pride , You Sink with the Charter , who strove with the Tide , Let all the lost Rivers return to the Main From whence they descended ; They'l spring out again ; Submit to the King In every thing , Then of a New Charter New Sonnets we'll sing : As London , the Phoenix of England , ne'r die , So out of the Flames a new CHARTER will rise . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden . London's Lamentation : OR , And Excellent New Song On the Loss of LONDON's CHARTER . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . YOu Freemen , and Master's , and Prentices mourn , For now You are left with your Charter forlorn : Since London was London , I dare boldly say , For your Riots you never so dearly did pay ; In Westminster-hall Your Dagon did fallen , That caus'd You to Riot and Mutiny all : O London ! O London ! Thou'dst better had None , Than thus with Thy Charter to vie with the Throne . II O London ! O London ! how cou'dst Thou pretend Against thy Defender Thy Crimes to defend ? Thy Freedoms & Rights from kind Princes did spring , And yet in contempt Thou withstandest Thy King : With bold brazen Face They pleaded Thy Case , In hope's to the Charter the King wou'd give place : O London ! Thou'dst better no Charter at all , Than thus for Rebellion thy Charter shou'd fallen . III . Since Britains to London came over to dwell , You had and old Charter , to buy and to fell ; And while in Allegiance each honest man lives , Then you had a Charter for Lord May'r and Shrieves : But when , with Your Pride , You began to backslide , And London of Factions did run with the Tide , Then London , O London ! 'tis time to withdraw , Lest the flood of Your Factions the Land overflow . IV. When Faction and fury of Rebels prevail'd ; When Cobblers were Kings , and Monarchs were jayl'd ; When Master's in Tumults their Prentices led , And the Tail did begin to make war with the Head ; When Thomas and Kate Did bring in their Plate , T'uphold the Old Cause of the Rump of the State , Then tell me , O London ! I prithee now tell , Hadst thou e'r a Charter to Fight and Rebel ? V. When zealous Sham-Sheriffs the City oppose , In spite of the Charter , the King , and the Laws , And make such a Riot and Rout in the Town , That never before such a Racket was known ; When Ryoters dare Arrest the Lord May'r , And force the King's Substitute out of the Chair : O London ! whose Charter is now on the Lees , Did Your Charter e'r warrant such actions as these ? VI . Alas for the Brothers ! what now must they do , For choosing Whig-Sheriffs and Burgesses too ? The Charter with Patience is gone to the pot , And the Doctor is lost in the depth of the Plo St. Stephens his Flail No more will prevail , Nor Sir Robert's Dagger , the Charter to bail : O London ! Thou'dst better have suffer'd by Fire , Than thus thy old Charter shou'd stick in the Mire . VII . But since with your Folly , your Faction and Pride , You Sink with the Charter , who strove with the Tide , Let all the lost Rivers return to the Main From whence they descended ; They'l spring out again ; Submit to the King In every thing , Then of a New Charter New Sonnets we'll sing : As London , the Phoenix of England , ne'r die , So out of the Flames a new CHARTER will rise . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden . London's Lamentation : OR , And Excellent New Song On the Loss of LONDON's CHARTER . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . YOu Freemen , and Master's , and Prentices mourn , For now You are left with your Charter forlorn : Since London was London , I dare boldly say , For your Riots you never so dearly did pay ; In Westminster-hall Your Dagon did fallen , That caus'd You to Riot and Mutiny all : O London ! O London ! Thou'dst better had None , Than thus with Thy Charter to vie with the Throne . II O London ! O London ! how cou'dst Thou pretend Against thy Defender Thy Crimes to defend ? Thy Freedoms & Rights from kind Princes did spring , And yet in contempt Thou withstandest Thy King : With bold brazen Face They pleaded Thy Case , In hope's to the Charter the King wou'd give place : O London ! Thou'dst better no Charter at all , Than thus for Rebellion thy Charter shou'd fallen . III . Since Britains to London came over to dwell , You had and old Charter , to buy and to fell ; And while in Allegiance each honest man lives , Then you had a Charter for Lord May'r and Shrieves : But when , with Your Pride , You began to backslide , And London of Factions did run with the Tide , Then London , O London ! 'tis time to withdraw , Lest the flood of Your Factions the Land overflow . IV. When Faction and fury of Rebels prevail'd ; When Cobblers were Kings , and Monarchs were jayl'd ; When Master's in Tumults their Prentices led , And the Tail did begin to make war with the Head ; When Thomas and Kate Did bring in their Plate , T'uphold the Old Cause of the Rump of the State , Then tell me , O London ! I prithee now tell , Hadst thou e'r a Charter to Fight and Rebel ? V. When zealous Sham-Sheriffs the City oppose , In spite of the Charter , the King , and the Laws , And make such a Riot and Rout in the Town , That never before such a Racket was known ; When Ryoters dare Arrest the Lord May'r , And force the King's Substitute out of the Chair : O London ! whose Charter is now on the Lees , Did Your Charter e'r warrant such actions as these ? VI . Alas for the Brothers ! what now must they do , For choosing Whig-Sheriffs and Burgesses too ? The Charter with Patience is gone to the pot , And the Doctor is lost in the depth of the Plo St. Stephens his Flail No more will prevail , Nor Sir Robert's Dagger , the Charter to bail : O London ! Thou'dst better have suffer'd by Fire , Than thus thy old Charter shou'd stick in the Mire . VII . But since with your Folly , your Faction and Pride , You Sink with the Charter , who strove with the Tide , Let all the lost Rivers return to the Main From whence they descended ; They'l spring out again ; Submit to the King In every thing , Then of a New Charter New Sonnets we'll sing : As London , the Phoenix of England , ne'r die , So out of the Flames a new CHARTER will rise . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden . London's Lamentation : OR , And Excellent New Song On the Loss of LONDON's CHARTER . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . YOu Freemen , and Master's , and Prentices mourn , For now You are left with your Charter forlorn : Since London was London , I dare boldly say , For your Riots you never so dearly did pay ; In Westminster-hall Your Dagon did fallen , That caus'd You to Riot and Mutiny all : O London ! O London ! Thou'dst better had None , Than thus with Thy Charter to vie with the Throne . II O London ! O London ! how cou'dst Thou pretend Against thy Defender Thy Crimes to defend ? Thy Freedoms & Rights from kind Princes did spring , And yet in contempt Thou withstandest Thy King : With bold brazen Face They pleaded Thy Case , In hope's to the Charter the King wou'd give place : O London ! Thou'dst better no Charter at all , Than thus for Rebellion thy Charter shou'd fallen . III . Since Britains to London came over to dwell , You had and old Charter , to buy and to fell ; And while in Allegiance each honest man lives , Then you had a Charter for Lord May'r and Shrieves : But when , with Your Pride , You began to backslide , And London of Factions did run with the Tide , Then London , O London ! 'tis time to withdraw , Lest the flood of Your Factions the Land overflow . IV. When Faction and fury of Rebels prevail'd ; When Cobblers were Kings , and Monarchs were jayl'd ; When Master's in Tumults their Prentices led , And the Tail did begin to make war with the Head ; When Thomas and Kate Did bring in their Plate , T'uphold the Old Cause of the Rump of the State , Then tell me , O London ! I prithee now tell , Hadst thou e'r a Charter to Fight and Rebel ? V. When zealous Sham-Sheriffs the City oppose , In spite of the Charter , the King , and the Laws , And make such a Riot and Rout in the Town , That never before such a Racket was known ; When Ryoters dare Arrest the Lord May'r , And force the King's Substitute out of the Chair : O London ! whose Charter is now on the Lees , Did Your Charter e'r warrant such actions as these ? VI . Alas for the Brothers ! what now must they do , For choosing Whig-Sheriffs and Burgesses too ? The Charter with Patience is gone to the pot , And the Doctor is lost in the depth of the Plo St. Stephens his Flail No more will prevail , Nor Sir Robert's Dagger , the Charter to bail : O London ! Thou'dst better have suffer'd by Fire , Than thus thy old Charter shou'd stick in the Mire . VII . But since with your Folly , your Faction and Pride , You Sink with the Charter , who strove with the Tide , Let all the lost Rivers return to the Main From whence they descended ; They'l spring out again ; Submit to the King In every thing , Then of a New Charter New Sonnets we'll sing : As London , the Phoenix of England , ne'r die , So out of the Flames a new CHARTER will rise . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden . 