The Wounded Lover's Lamentation TO SILVIA . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . This may be Printed , R. P. YOU I love , ( by Jove ) I do , More than all things here below ; With a passion full as great , As e'er Creature fancied you Silvia , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and Cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , Bid the wretched sighs no more ; Bid the Old be young again ; Bid the Maids ne'er think of Men : Silvia , this when you can do , Bid me then not think of you . Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fate , That makes me love , that makes you hate ; Silvia then do what you will , Ease or Cure , torment or kill : Be kind or Cruel , false or true , Love I must , and none but you . Had I lov'd as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since , But fair Silvia let me find My dear Mistress always kind . Love thou know'st with what a flame , I adore young Silvia's name ; Let me then some pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Change her till she pity me , And thy Votary I'll be . On her gentle downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twin'd within those tender Arms , Fetter'd by those pleasing Charms ; Then I will hereafter rest On the Pillows of her Breast . Thus you'll show your power and skill , Able both to save and kill ; But to kill has always been Held a most notorious since ; For young Beauty's which we love , Should be tender as the Dove . In sweet Groves we'll always dwell , With more Joys than tongue can tell ; There the wanton then we'll play , Steal each others hearts away , Thus we will our Joys renew , And be constant and be true . Every Maiden which is fair , Should be gentle as the Air , When we to the power submit , To their Beauty and their Wit , Then their Charms will all men move , And will make them ever Love . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Wounded Lover's Lamentation TO SILVIA . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . This may be Printed , R. P. YOU I love , ( by Jove ) I do , More than all things here below ; With a passion full as great , As e'er Creature fancied you Silvia , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and Cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , Bid the wretched sighs no more ; Bid the Old be young again ; Bid the Maids ne'er think of Men : Silvia , this when you can do , Bid me then not think of you . Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fate , That makes me love , that makes you hate ; Silvia then do what you will , Ease or Cure , torment or kill : Be kind or Cruel , false or true , Love I must , and none but you . Had I lov'd as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since , But fair Silvia let me find My dear Mistress always kind . Love thou know'st with what a flame , I adore young Silvia's name ; Let me then some pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Change her till she pity me , And thy Votary I'll be . On her gentle downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twin'd within those tender Arms , Fetter'd by those pleasing Charms ; Then I will hereafter rest On the Pillows of her Breast . Thus you'll show your power and skill , Able both to save and kill ; But to kill has always been Held a most notorious since ; For young Beauty's which we love , Should be tender as the Dove . In sweet Groves we'll always dwell , With more Joys than tongue can tell ; There the wanton then we'll play , Steal each others hearts away , Thus we will our Joys renew , And be constant and be true . Every Maiden which is fair , Should be gentle as the Air , When we to the power submit , To their Beauty and their Wit , Then their Charms will all men move , And will make them ever Love . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Wounded Lover's Lamentation TO SILVIA . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . This may be Printed , R. P. YOU I love , ( by Jove ) I do , More than all things here below ; With a passion full as great , As e'er Creature fancied you Silvia , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and Cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , Bid the wretched sighs no more ; Bid the Old be young again ; Bid the Maids ne'er think of Men : Silvia , this when you can do , Bid me then not think of you . Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fate , That makes me love , that makes you hate ; Silvia then do what you will , Ease or Cure , torment or kill : Be kind or Cruel , false or true , Love I must , and none but you . Had I lov'd as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since , But fair Silvia let me find My dear Mistress always kind . Love thou know'st with what a flame , I adore young Silvia's name ; Let me then some pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Change her till she pity me , And thy Votary I'll be . On her gentle downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twin'd within those tender Arms , Fetter'd by those pleasing Charms ; Then I will hereafter rest On the Pillows of her Breast . Thus you'll show your power and skill , Able both to save and kill ; But to kill has always been Held a most notorious since ; For young Beauty's which we love , Should be tender as the Dove . In sweet Groves we'll always dwell , With more Joys than tongue can tell ; There the wanton then we'll play , Steal each others hearts away , Thus we will our Joys renew , And be constant and be true . Every Maiden which is fair , Should be gentle as the Air , When we to the power submit , To their Beauty and their Wit , Then their Charms will all men move , And will make them ever Love . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Wounded Lover's Lamentation TO SILVIA . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . This may be Printed , R. P. YOU I love , ( by Jove ) I do , More than all things here below ; With a passion full as great , As e'er Creature fancied you Silvia , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and Cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , Bid the wretched sighs no more ; Bid the Old be young again ; Bid the Maids ne'er think of Men : Silvia , this when you can do , Bid me then not think of you . Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fate , That makes me love , that makes you hate ; Silvia then do what you will , Ease or Cure , torment or kill : Be kind or Cruel , false or true , Love I must , and none but you . Had I lov'd as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since , But fair Silvia let me find My dear Mistress always kind . Love thou know'st with what a flame , I adore young Silvia's name ; Let me then some pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Change her till she pity me , And thy Votary I'll be . On her gentle downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twin'd within those tender Arms , Fetter'd by those pleasing Charms ; Then I will hereafter rest On the Pillows of her Breast . Thus you'll show your power and skill , Able both to save and kill ; But to kill has always been Held a most notorious since ; For young Beauty's which we love , Should be tender as the Dove . In sweet Groves we'll always dwell , With more Joys than tongue can tell ; There the wanton then we'll play , Steal each others hearts away , Thus we will our Joys renew , And be constant and be true . Every Maiden which is fair , Should be gentle as the Air , When we to the power submit , To their Beauty and their Wit , Then their Charms will all men move , And will make them ever Love . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 