The Merchant's SON , AND THE BEGGAR-WENCH of HULL . YOU gallants all , I pray draw near , And you a pleasant jest shall hear ; How a Beggar Wench of Hull , A Merchant's Son of Yoek did gull . Fa , la , etc One morning on a certain day , He cloath'd himself in rich array ; And took with him , as it was told , The sum of sixty pounds in gold . Fa , la , etc So mounting on a prancing steed , He towards Hull did ride with speed , Where in his way he chanc'd to see A Beggar Wench of mean degree . She asked him for some relief . And said with tears of seeming grief , That she had neither house nor home , But for her living was forc'd to rome . He seemed to lament her case , And said , Thou hast a pretty face : If thou wilt lodge with me , he cry'd , With gold thou shalt be satisfy'd . Her silence seem'd to give consent , So to a little house they went ; The landlord laugh'd to see him kiss The Beggar Wench , a ragged miss ! He needs must have a supper dressed , And call'd for liquour of the best ; And there they toss'd off bumpers free , The jolly Beggar Wench and he . A dose she gave him , as 'tis thought , Which by the landlady was bought ; For all the night he lay in bed , Secure as if he had been dead . Then did she put on all his clothes , His coat , his breeches , and his hose ; His hat , his periwig , likewise , And seiz'd upon the golden prize . Her greesy petticoat and gown , In which she rambled up and down , She left the merchant's son in lieu Her bag of bred and bacon too . Down stairs like any spark she gows , Five guineas to the host she throws , And smiling then she went away , And ne'er was herd of to this day . When he had took his long repose , He look'd about , and miss'd his clothes , And saw her rags lie in the room , How he did storm , nay fret , and fume . Yet wanting clothes and friends in town [ , ] Her greasy petticoat and gown He did put on , and mounted strait , Bemoaning his unhappy fate . You would have laugh'd to see the dress Which he was in ; yet ne'ertheless , He homeward rid , and often swore He'd never kiss a Beggar more . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Bow-Chuch-Yard LONDON . The Merchant's SON , AND THE BEGGAR-WENCH of HULL . YOU gallants all , I pray draw near , And you a pleasant jest shall hear ; How a Beggar Wench of Hull , A Merchant's Son of Yoek did gull . Fa , la , etc One morning on a certain day , He cloath'd himself in rich array ; And took with him , as it was told , The sum of sixty pounds in gold . Fa , la , etc So mounting on a prancing steed , He towards Hull did ride with speed , Where in his way he chanc'd to see A Beggar Wench of mean degree . She asked him for some relief . And said with tears of seeming grief , That she had neither house nor home , But for her living was forc'd to rome . He seemed to lament her case , And said , Thou hast a pretty face : If thou wilt lodge with me , he cry'd , With gold thou shalt be satisfy'd . Her silence seem'd to give consent , So to a little house they went ; The landlord laugh'd to see him kiss The Beggar Wench , a ragged miss ! He needs must have a supper dressed , And call'd for liquour of the best ; And there they toss'd off bumpers free , The jolly Beggar Wench and he . A dose she gave him , as 'tis thought , Which by the landlady was bought ; For all the night he lay in bed , Secure as if he had been dead . Then did she put on all his clothes , His coat , his breeches , and his hose ; His hat , his periwig , likewise , And seiz'd upon the golden prize . Her greesy petticoat and gown , In which she rambled up and down , She left the merchant's son in lieu Her bag of bred and bacon too . Down stairs like any spark she gows , Five guineas to the host she throws , And smiling then she went away , And ne'er was herd of to this day . When he had took his long repose , He look'd about , and miss'd his clothes , And saw her rags lie in the room , How he did storm , nay fret , and fume . Yet wanting clothes and friends in town [ , ] Her greasy petticoat and gown He did put on , and mounted strait , Bemoaning his unhappy fate . You would have laugh'd to see the dress Which he was in ; yet ne'ertheless , He homeward rid , and often swore He'd never kiss a Beggar more . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Bow-Chuch-Yard LONDON . The Merchant's SON , AND THE BEGGAR-WENCH of HULL . YOU gallants all , I pray draw near , And you a pleasant jest shall hear ; How a Beggar Wench of Hull , A Merchant's Son of Yoek did gull . Fa , la , etc One morning on a certain day , He cloath'd himself in rich array ; And took with him , as it was told , The sum of sixty pounds in gold . Fa , la , etc So mounting on a prancing steed , He towards Hull did ride with speed , Where in his way he chanc'd to see A Beggar Wench of mean degree . She asked him for some relief . And said with tears of seeming grief , That she had neither house nor home , But for her living was forc'd to rome . He seemed to lament her case , And said , Thou hast a pretty face : If thou wilt lodge with me , he cry'd , With gold thou shalt be satisfy'd . Her silence seem'd to give consent , So to a little house they went ; The landlord laugh'd to see him kiss The Beggar Wench , a ragged miss ! He needs must have a supper dressed , And call'd for liquour of the best ; And there they toss'd off bumpers free , The jolly Beggar Wench and he . A dose she gave him , as 'tis thought , Which by the landlady was bought ; For all the night he lay in bed , Secure as if he had been dead . Then did she put on all his clothes , His coat , his breeches , and his hose ; His hat , his periwig , likewise , And seiz'd upon the golden prize . Her greesy petticoat and gown , In which she rambled up and down , She left the merchant's son in lieu Her bag of bred and bacon too . Down stairs like any spark she gows , Five guineas to the host she throws , And smiling then she went away , And ne'er was herd of to this day . When he had took his long repose , He look'd about , and miss'd his clothes , And saw her rags lie in the room , How he did storm , nay fret , and fume . Yet wanting clothes and friends in town [ , ] Her greasy petticoat and gown He did put on , and mounted strait , Bemoaning his unhappy fate . You would have laugh'd to see the dress Which he was in ; yet ne'ertheless , He homeward rid , and often swore He'd never kiss a Beggar more . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Bow-Chuch-Yard LONDON . The Merchant's SON , AND THE BEGGAR-WENCH of HULL . YOU gallants all , I pray draw near , And you a pleasant jest shall hear ; How a Beggar Wench of Hull , A Merchant's Son of Yoek did gull . Fa , la , etc One morning on a certain day , He cloath'd himself in rich array ; And took with him , as it was told , The sum of sixty pounds in gold . Fa , la , etc So mounting on a prancing steed , He towards Hull did ride with speed , Where in his way he chanc'd to see A Beggar Wench of mean degree . She asked him for some relief . And said with tears of seeming grief , That she had neither house nor home , But for her living was forc'd to rome . He seemed to lament her case , And said , Thou hast a pretty face : If thou wilt lodge with me , he cry'd , With gold thou shalt be satisfy'd . Her silence seem'd to give consent , So to a little house they went ; The landlord laugh'd to see him kiss The Beggar Wench , a ragged miss ! He needs must have a supper dressed , And call'd for liquour of the best ; And there they toss'd off bumpers free , The jolly Beggar Wench and he . A dose she gave him , as 'tis thought , Which by the landlady was bought ; For all the night he lay in bed , Secure as if he had been dead . Then did she put on all his clothes , His coat , his breeches , and his hose ; His hat , his periwig , likewise , And seiz'd upon the golden prize . Her greesy petticoat and gown , In which she rambled up and down , She left the merchant's son in lieu Her bag of bred and bacon too . Down stairs like any spark she gows , Five guineas to the host she throws , And smiling then she went away , And ne'er was herd of to this day . When he had took his long repose , He look'd about , and miss'd his clothes , And saw her rags lie in the room , How he did storm , nay fret , and fume . Yet wanting clothes and friends in town [ , ] Her greasy petticoat and gown He did put on , and mounted strait , Bemoaning his unhappy fate . You would have laugh'd to see the dress Which he was in ; yet ne'ertheless , He homeward rid , and often swore He'd never kiss a Beggar more . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Bow-Chuch-Yard LONDON . 