A Pleasant New Song called The Cony BARBER , Or , A young Ladies Delight , how she trim'd her Maid , when she was on the Straw asleep . To a pleasant new West-Country Tune . YEa Females draw near , some news you shall hear of a Lady that is very well known , She is one of the name , that is right for the Game but strangely preserved her own ; Though tender in years , as it plainly appears No fear could her Faculty awe , For a Vow she hath made to be one of the Trade ; which hath made you laugh hah , hah hah , hah . No thoughts could expire her earnest desire a Cony Barber to be , With Instruments neat , and all things complete in short provided had she , Her Powder in Box for perfuming your Locks , The best that ever you saw , Her Raisor so kine if you had filted between , it would have made you laugh hah , hah , hah , hah . And likewise her Yeuer , there is none can procure in Fair or in City or in Town , Her Washing-Ball sweet , if that you do meet , the like if you please to lie down , [ H ] er Scissors and Come , will be sure to reach home , She scorns one hair for to draw , [ H ] er Glass and her Hone , and her Music at tone , that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . She can paint , she can porl , crisp , powder and curl , the French or the Spanish Cut . Mischeators or Bear , or what you will wear , each Hair in order shee'l put , For brushing , for rubbing , for lathering for frubing , Whither it be a Frost or a Thaw , Her Water Pot , she keeps always hight , for to make you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . When Febus addressed , to view the North West and Vesper had seal'd up the day , She was not afraid to make use of her Trade . in the place where she used to play , Where she found out a Maid , whom her self had laid , Who soundly slept on the Straw . She gave her a trim , if you thither had been , it would have made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . She slumbered , she slept , she sighed and wept , strange Visions were inter inscar'd She seemed to spy , one shaving so nigh , who trimb of the Skin with the Beard , And likewise she dreams , and also proclaims Some Rook or else some Jack Daw Was rid to the Fair , for to fell of that Hair that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , h [ a ] , She was nimble and quick , though she hath got the Trick yet she dares not her fingers to knock lest she should affright , the Slumber in wait , before she had ordered her Lock ; For betwixt the heaps , she opened the Lips And found never a Tooth in the Jaw , She tripped away without any pay , that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . With weeping cross , she lamented her Loss till the Cony Barber she had found , And by a great name , had got the Fame throughout all the firsenty round , They wrangled , they jangled , they strangely entangled Like Cats they scratch and they claw , It would a yield you delight , for to see such a fight . and a made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , This Barber complains she so paid for her Pain and the Boys cries it for a may-game , To her Mother she goes for to punish all those , who dares to give her that Name , Her Friends being wise , they thought to surprise The business while it was raw , To a Justice they giss , which was the way to suppress , and to make you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , Then a brave Troop of Horse , provided there was . for to have the businesses well skand You must think for a while , how his Worship did smile when first took the business in hand , He told the time , would extinguish the Crime , And the Boys would forget what they saw , Likewise time would repair , the loss of that Hair ; that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , Then Mistress Tell-Truth would have taken her Oath , that this Maid stole one grain of her Wheat , And much to discover , to have her bound over , the act was more heinous then great , For his Worship knew well when Women Rebel No Justice therefore could her awe For he bid them deride on every side ; and burst out with a hah , hah , hah , hah . This Maid still said , that she would be paid for losing the crop of her Field , The Fountain so near with a half year a better Cut might yield , For the Caves was so bore , that no actium lay there Nor any Commencement in Law , For they rid out like Mome , and so they Rid home , which hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie Corner . A Pleasant New Song called The Cony BARBER , Or , A young Ladies Delight , how she trim'd her Maid , when she was on the Straw asleep . To a pleasant new West-Country Tune . YEa Females draw near , some news you shall hear of a Lady that is very well known , She is one of the name , that is right for the Game but strangely preserved her own ; Though tender in years , as it plainly appears No fear could her Faculty awe , For a Vow she hath made to be one of the Trade ; which hath made you laugh hah , hah hah , hah . No thoughts could expire her earnest desire a Cony Barber to be , With Instruments neat , and all things complete in short provided had she , Her Powder in Box for perfuming your Locks , The best that ever you saw , Her Raisor so kine if you had filted between , it would have made you laugh hah , hah , hah , hah . And likewise her Yeuer , there is none can procure in Fair or in City or in Town , Her Washing-Ball sweet , if that you do meet , the like if you please to lie down , [ H ] er Scissors and Come , will be sure to reach home , She scorns one hair for to draw , [ H ] er Glass and her Hone , and her Music at tone , that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . She can paint , she can porl , crisp , powder and curl , the French or the Spanish Cut . Mischeators or Bear , or what you will wear , each Hair in order shee'l put , For brushing , for rubbing , for lathering for frubing , Whither it be a Frost or a Thaw , Her Water Pot , she keeps always hight , for to make you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . When Febus addressed , to view the North West and Vesper had seal'd up the day , She was not afraid to make use of her Trade . in the place where she used to play , Where she found out a Maid , whom her self had laid , Who soundly slept on the Straw . She gave her a trim , if you thither had been , it would have made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . She slumbered , she slept , she sighed and wept , strange Visions were inter inscar'd She seemed to spy , one shaving so nigh , who trimb of the Skin with the Beard , And likewise she dreams , and also proclaims Some Rook or else some Jack Daw Was rid to the Fair , for to fell of that Hair that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , h [ a ] , She was nimble and quick , though she hath got the Trick yet she dares not her fingers to knock lest she should affright , the Slumber in wait , before she had ordered her Lock ; For betwixt the heaps , she opened the Lips And found never a Tooth in the Jaw , She tripped away without any pay , that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah . With weeping cross , she lamented her Loss till the Cony Barber she had found , And by a great name , had got the Fame throughout all the firsenty round , They wrangled , they jangled , they strangely entangled Like Cats they scratch and they claw , It would a yield you delight , for to see such a fight . and a made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , This Barber complains she so paid for her Pain and the Boys cries it for a may-game , To her Mother she goes for to punish all those , who dares to give her that Name , Her Friends being wise , they thought to surprise The business while it was raw , To a Justice they giss , which was the way to suppress , and to make you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , Then a brave Troop of Horse , provided there was . for to have the businesses well skand You must think for a while , how his Worship did smile when first took the business in hand , He told the time , would extinguish the Crime , And the Boys would forget what they saw , Likewise time would repair , the loss of that Hair ; that hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , Then Mistress Tell-Truth would have taken her Oath , that this Maid stole one grain of her Wheat , And much to discover , to have her bound over , the act was more heinous then great , For his Worship knew well when Women Rebel No Justice therefore could her awe For he bid them deride on every side ; and burst out with a hah , hah , hah , hah . This Maid still said , that she would be paid for losing the crop of her Field , The Fountain so near with a half year a better Cut might yield , For the Caves was so bore , that no actium lay there Nor any Commencement in Law , For they rid out like Mome , and so they Rid home , which hath made you laugh , hah , hah , hah , hah , Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie Corner . 