THE Unconscionable Bachelors of DARBY : OR , THE Young Lasses Pawn'd by their Sweethearts , for a large Reck - ning , at Nottingham Goose-Fair ; where poor Susan was forced to pay the Shot . To the Tune of , To thee , to thee , etc YOu lovers of mirth attend a while , a merry new Ditty here I write , I know it will make you laugh and smile , for every line affords deligh The Lasses of Darby with young Men , they went to Goose-fair for recreation , But how these Sparks did serve them then , is truly worth your observation , therefore I pray observe this Ditty ; The Maids did complain , they came there in vain , and was not , was not that a pity . So soon as they came into the Fair , the Bachelors made them conjues low , And bid them a thousand welcomes there , this done , to a tippling-school they go : How pleasant was honest Kate and Sue ? believing they should be richly treated , But , Neighbours and Friends , as I am true , no Lasses ever was so cheated , Cheated , cheated , very farely cheated , as you may note by this new Ditty ; They were left alone , to make their moan , and was not , was not that a pity ? The innocent Lasses fair and gay , concluded the Men was kind and free , Because they pass'd the time away , a plenty of cakes and ale they see ; For sider and mead they then did call , and whatever else the House afforded , But Susan was forc'd to pay for all , out of the money she had hoarded , Hoarded , hoarded , money she had hoarded ; it made her sing a doleful Ditty , And so did the rest with grief oppressed , and was not , was not that a pity ? Young Katy she seemed something coy , because she would make them eager grow , As knowing thereby she might enjoy what beautiful Damsels long to know : On compliments they did not stand , nor did they admire their charming features , For they had another game in hand , which was to pawn those pretty Creatures , Creatures , Creatures , loving , loving Creatures , which was so charming , fair , and pretty ; The Men sneak'd away , and nothing did pay , and was not , was not that a pity ? Though'f out of the door they enter'd first , and left them rippling there behind , Those innocent Maids did not mistrust , that Bachelors could be so unkind . Quoth Susan , I know their gone to buy the fairings which we did so require , And they will return I know , for why , they do our youthful charms admire ; Therefore , therefore , stay a little longer , and I will sing a pleasant Ditty ; But when they found they were catch'd in the pound , they sigh'd and weep'd the more's the pity . Now finding the Men return'd no more , and that the good People would not trust , They presently call'd to know the score , it chanc'd to be fifteen shilling jus Poor Kate had but five pence in her purse , but Sue had a crown beside a guinney ; And since the case had happen'd thus , poor Soul she paid it e'ry penny , Penny , penny , e'ry , e'ry penny , tho' with a sad and doleful Ditty Said she , For this I had not a kiss , and was not , was not that a pity ? Printed for J. Bissel , in West-smithfield . THE Unconscionable Bachelors of DARBY : OR , THE Young Lasses Pawn'd by their Sweethearts , for a large Reck - ning , at Nottingham Goose-Fair ; where poor Susan was forced to pay the Shot . To the Tune of , To thee , to thee , etc YOu lovers of mirth attend a while , a merry new Ditty here I write , I know it will make you laugh and smile , for every line affords deligh The Lasses of Darby with young Men , they went to Goose-fair for recreation , But how these Sparks did serve them then , is truly worth your observation , therefore I pray observe this Ditty ; The Maids did complain , they came there in vain , and was not , was not that a pity . So soon as they came into the Fair , the Bachelors made them conjues low , And bid them a thousand welcomes there , this done , to a tippling-school they go : How pleasant was honest Kate and Sue ? believing they should be richly treated , But , Neighbours and Friends , as I am true , no Lasses ever was so cheated , Cheated , cheated , very farely cheated , as you may note by this new Ditty ; They were left alone , to make their moan , and was not , was not that a pity ? The innocent Lasses fair and gay , concluded the Men was kind and free , Because they pass'd the time away , a plenty of cakes and ale they see ; For sider and mead they then did call , and whatever else the House afforded , But Susan was forc'd to pay for all , out of the money she had hoarded , Hoarded , hoarded , money she had hoarded ; it made her sing a doleful Ditty , And so did the rest with grief oppressed , and was not , was not that a pity ? Young Katy she seemed something coy , because she would make them eager grow , As knowing thereby she might enjoy what beautiful Damsels long to know : On compliments they did not stand , nor did they admire their charming features , For they had another game in hand , which was to pawn those pretty Creatures , Creatures , Creatures , loving , loving Creatures , which was so charming , fair , and pretty ; The Men sneak'd away , and nothing did pay , and was not , was not that a pity ? Though'f out of the door they enter'd first , and left them rippling there behind , Those innocent Maids did not mistrust , that Bachelors could be so unkind . Quoth Susan , I know their gone to buy the fairings which we did so require , And they will return I know , for why , they do our youthful charms admire ; Therefore , therefore , stay a little longer , and I will sing a pleasant Ditty ; But when they found they were catch'd in the pound , they sigh'd and weep'd the more's the pity . Now finding the Men return'd no more , and that the good People would not trust , They presently call'd to know the score , it chanc'd to be fifteen shilling jus Poor Kate had but five pence in her purse , but Sue had a crown beside a guinney ; And since the case had happen'd thus , poor Soul she paid it e'ry penny , Penny , penny , e'ry , e'ry penny , tho' with a sad and doleful Ditty Said she , For this I had not a kiss , and was not , was not that a pity ? Printed for J. Bissel , in West-smithfield . THE Unconscionable Bachelors of DARBY : OR , THE Young Lasses Pawn'd by their Sweethearts , for a large Reck - ning , at Nottingham Goose-Fair ; where poor Susan was forced to pay the Shot . To the Tune of , To thee , to thee , etc YOu lovers of mirth attend a while , a merry new Ditty here I write , I know it will make you laugh and smile , for every line affords deligh The Lasses of Darby with young Men , they went to Goose-fair for recreation , But how these Sparks did serve them then , is truly worth your observation , Truly , truly , worth your observation , therefore I pray observe this Ditty ; The Maids did complain , they came there in vain , and was not , was not that a pity . So soon as they came into the Fair , the Bachelors made them conjues low , And bid them a thousand welcomes there , this done , to a tippling-school they go : How pleasant was honest Kate and Sue ? believing they should be richly treated , But , Neighbours and Friends , as I am true , no Lasses ever was so cheated , Cheated , cheated , very farely cheated , as you may note by this new Ditty ; They were left alone , to make their moan , and was not , was not that a pity ? The innocent Lasses fair and gay , concluded the Men was kind and free , Because they pass'd the time away , a plenty of cakes and ale they see ; For sider and mead they then did call , and whatever else the House afforded , But Susan was forc'd to pay for all , out of the money she had hoarded , Hoarded , hoarded , money she had hoarded ; it made her sing a doleful Ditty , And so did the rest with grief oppressed , and was not , was not that a pity ? Young Katy she seemed something coy , because she would make them eager grow , As knowing thereby she might enjoy what beautiful Damsels long to know : On compliments they did not stand , nor did they admire their charming features , For they had another game in hand , which was to pawn those pretty Creatures , Creatures , Creatures , loving , loving Creatures , which was so charming , fair , and pretty ; The Men sneak'd away , and nothing did pay , and was not , was not that a pity ? Though'f out of the door they enter'd first , and left them rippling there behind , Those innocent Maids did not mistrust , that Bachelors could be so unkind . Quoth Susan , I know their gone to buy the fairings which we did so require , And they will return I know , for why , they do our youthful charms admire ; Therefore , therefore , stay a little longer , and I will sing a pleasant Ditty ; But when they found they were catch'd in the pound , they sigh'd and weep'd the more's the pity . Now finding the Men return'd no more , and that the good People would not trust , They presently call'd to know the score , it chanc'd to be fifteen shilling jus Poor Kate had but five pence in her purse , but Sue had a crown beside a guinney ; And since the case had happen'd thus , poor Soul she paid it e'ry penny , Penny , penny , e'ry , e'ry penny , tho' with a sad and doleful Ditty Said she , For this I had not a kiss , and was not , was not that a pity ? Printed for J. Bissel , in West-smithfield . THE Unconscionable Bachelors of DARBY : OR , THE Young Lasses Pawn'd by their Sweethearts , for a large Reck - ning , at Nottingham Goose-Fair ; where poor Susan was forced to pay the Shot . To the Tune of , To thee , to thee , etc YOu lovers of mirth attend a while , a merry new Ditty here I write , I know it will make you laugh and smile , for every line affords deligh The Lasses of Darby with young Men , they went to Goose-fair for recreation , But how these Sparks did serve them then , is truly worth your observation , Truly , truly , worth your observation , therefore I pray observe this Ditty ; The Maids did complain , they came there in vain , and was not , was not that a pity . So soon as they came into the Fair , the Bachelors made them conjues low , And bid them a thousand welcomes there , this done , to a tippling-school they go : How pleasant was honest Kate and Sue ? believing they should be richly treated , But , Neighbours and Friends , as I am true , no Lasses ever was so cheated , Cheated , cheated , very farely cheated , as you may note by this new Ditty ; They were left alone , to make their moan , and was not , was not that a pity ? The innocent Lasses fair and gay , concluded the Men was kind and free , Because they pass'd the time away , a plenty of cakes and ale they see ; For sider and mead they then did call , and whatever else the House afforded , But Susan was forc'd to pay for all , out of the money she had hoarded , Hoarded , hoarded , money she had hoarded ; it made her sing a doleful Ditty , And so did the rest with grief oppressed , and was not , was not that a pity ? Young Katy she seemed something coy , because she would make them eager grow , As knowing thereby she might enjoy what beautiful Damsels long to know : On compliments they did not stand , nor did they admire their charming features , For they had another game in hand , which was to pawn those pretty Creatures , Creatures , Creatures , loving , loving Creatures , which was so charming , fair , and pretty ; The Men sneak'd away , and nothing did pay , and was not , was not that a pity ? Though'f out of the door they enter'd first , and left them rippling there behind , Those innocent Maids did not mistrust , that Bachelors could be so unkind . Quoth Susan , I know their gone to buy the fairings which we did so require , And they will return I know , for why , they do our youthful charms admire ; Therefore , therefore , stay a little longer , and I will sing a pleasant Ditty ; But when they found they were catch'd in the pound , they sigh'd and weep'd the more's the pity . Now finding the Men return'd no more , and that the good People would not trust , They presently call'd to know the score , it chanc'd to be fifteen shilling jus Poor Kate had but five pence in her purse , but Sue had a crown beside a guinney ; And since the case had happen'd thus , poor Soul she paid it e'ry penny , Penny , penny , e'ry , e'ry penny , tho' with a sad and doleful Ditty Said she , For this I had not a kiss , and was not , was not that a pity ? Printed for J. Bissel , in West-smithfield . 