DICK the Plowman Turn'd Doctor . OR , The Lovesick Maiden Cured . Showing how a Country Maid in Kent fell in love with her Fellow-Servant Dick the Blow - man , and how he Cured her of her Sick Distemper , etc To the Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Maidens all of London City , pray come nigh , and lend and ear ; And th' event of this my Ditty , to you all I'le make appear : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile , But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Near Rochester in Kent there lived a brave Lass whose name was Bess , Such a Prank you ne'r did hear of , as to you I will express : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile ; But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Now this Maid was brisk and merry , and had all things to content ; Hold ! I do forget to tell you , there was something that ill went . To be short , Sir , this is it , this is it , this is it , That this Maid was very sick , Very , very , very Sick : Sick indeed , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick has god . NOw Dick the Plowman he was busy and this Maid was sham'd to ask , Yet she thought with prithee , prithee , for to win him at the last ; But this was no perfect Cure , perfect Cure , perfect Cure , For her grief increased more , More then e're it did before : And sick she was , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick had god . One Day when Dick was very jol'y , and as he was d [ r ] iving Blow ; Then he spy'd her melancholy , ah ! says Dick , how do you now . Ah! quoth she , I'm very sick , very sick , very sick ; Oh , what shall I do , my Dick , I am very , very sick , Sick , says Dick , I pray for what , Oh , [ f ] or something you have god . And Dick , 'tis you can only Cure me , prithee do't before you go ; Good now Richard , pray assure me , whither you will , aye or no : My dear Richard , don't deny , neither from your promise fly ; For my grievous malady , You can Cure immediately ; Then pray now Richard , give me that I need not name it , you know what . Prithee Betty how should I know , what the thing is that you mean ; Then she s [ i ] ghed , and cry'd Hi-ho , such a Fool was nev [ e ] r seen : I must languish here and die , here and die , here and die ; And can't have a Remedy , For my grievous malady ; Was ever there so dull a Sot , That knows not yet what he has god . When they had understood each other , Dick for joy did leave his Blow ; Gave his Whip unto his Brother , and he Swore he'd Cure her now . Then unto her straight he goes , and his skill to her he shows ; Brisk and blithe she then became , As any one upon the Plain : Now Maids you see what Dick can do , then try if he can Cure you too . FINIS . Printed for C. Lennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . DICK the Plowman Turn'd Doctor . OR , The Lovesick Maiden Cured . Showing how a Country Maid in Kent fell in love with her Fellow-Servant Dick the Blow - man , and how he Cured her of her Sick Distemper , etc To the Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Maidens all of London City , pray come nigh , and lend and ear ; And th' event of this my Ditty , to you all I'le make appear : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile , But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Near Rochester in Kent there lived a brave Lass whose name was Bess , Such a Prank you ne'r did hear of , as to you I will express : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile ; But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Now this Maid was brisk and merry , and had all things to content ; Hold ! I do forget to tell you , there was something that ill went . To be short , Sir , this is it , this is it , this is it , That this Maid was very sick , Very , very , very Sick : Sick indeed , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick has god . NOw Dick the Plowman he was busy and this Maid was sham'd to ask , Yet she thought with prithee , prithee , for to win him at the last ; But this was no perfect Cure , perfect Cure , perfect Cure , For her grief increased more , More then e're it did before : And sick she was , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick had god . One Day when Dick was very jol'y , and as he was d [ r ] iving Blow ; Then he spy'd her melancholy , ah ! says Dick , how do you now . Ah! quoth she , I'm very sick , very sick , very sick ; Oh , what shall I do , my Dick , I am very , very sick , Sick , says Dick , I pray for what , Oh , [ f ] or something you have god . And Dick , 'tis you can only Cure me , prithee do't before you go ; Good now Richard , pray assure me , whither you will , aye or no : My dear Richard , don't deny , neither from your promise fly ; For my grievous malady , You can Cure immediately ; Then pray now Richard , give me that I need not name it , you know what . Prithee Betty how should I know , what the thing is that you mean ; Then she s [ i ] ghed , and cry'd Hi-ho , such a Fool was nev [ e ] r seen : I must languish here and die , here and die , here and die ; And can't have a Remedy , For my grievous malady ; Was ever there so dull a Sot , That knows not yet what he has god . When they had understood each other , Dick for joy did leave his Blow ; Gave his Whip unto his Brother , and he Swore he'd Cure her now . Then unto her straight he goes , and his skill to her he shows ; Brisk and blithe she then became , As any one upon the Plain : Now Maids you see what Dick can do , then try if he can Cure you too . FINIS . Printed for C. Lennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . DICK the Plowman Turn'd Doctor . OR , The Lovesick Maiden Cured . Showing how a Country Maid in Kent fell in love with her Fellow-Servant Dick the Blow - man , and how he Cured her of her Sick Distemper , etc To the Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Maidens all of London City , pray come nigh , and lend and ear ; And th' event of this my Ditty , to you all I'le make appear : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile , But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Near Rochester in Kent there lived a brave Lass whose name was Bess , Such a Prank you ne'r did hear of , as to you I will express : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile ; But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Now this Maid was brisk and merry , and had all things to content ; Hold ! I do forget to tell you , there was something that ill went . To be short , Sir , this is it , this is it , this is it , That this Maid was very sick , Very , very , very Sick : Sick indeed , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick has god . NOw Dick the Plowman he was busy and this Maid was sham'd to ask , Yet she thought with prithee , prithee , for to win him at the last ; But this was no perfect Cure , perfect Cure , perfect Cure , For her grief increased more , More then e're it did before : And sick she was , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick had god . One Day when Dick was very jol'y , and as he was d [ r ] iving Blow ; Then he spy'd her melancholy , ah ! says Dick , how do you now . Ah! quoth she , I'm very sick , very sick , very sick ; Oh , what shall I do , my Dick , I am very , very sick , Sick , says Dick , I pray for what , Oh , [ f ] or something you have god . And Dick , 'tis you can only Cure me , prithee do't before you go ; Good now Richard , pray assure me , whither you will , aye or no : My dear Richard , don't deny , neither from your promise fly ; For my grievous malady , You can Cure immediately ; Then pray now Richard , give me that I need not name it , you know what . Prithee Betty how should I know , what the thing is that you mean ; Then she s [ i ] ghed , and cry'd Hi-ho , such a Fool was nev [ e ] r seen : I must languish here and die , here and die , here and die ; And can't have a Remedy , For my grievous malady ; Was ever there so dull a Sot , That knows not yet what he has god . When they had understood each other , Dick for joy did leave his Blow ; Gave his Whip unto his Brother , and he Swore he'd Cure her now . Then unto her straight he goes , and his skill to her he shows ; Brisk and blithe she then became , As any one upon the Plain : Now Maids you see what Dick can do , then try if he can Cure you too . FINIS . Printed for C. Lennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . DICK the Plowman Turn'd Doctor . OR , The Lovesick Maiden Cured . Showing how a Country Maid in Kent fell in love with her Fellow-Servant Dick the Blow - man , and how he Cured her of her Sick Distemper , etc To the Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Maidens all of London City , pray come nigh , and lend and ear ; And th' event of this my Ditty , to you all I'le make appear : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile , But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Near Rochester in Kent there lived a brave Lass whose name was Bess , Such a Prank you ne'r did hear of , as to you I will express : 'Tis such a one will make you smile , make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to hear't would come a Mile ; But your hope's I'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Now this Maid was brisk and merry , and had all things to content ; Hold ! I do forget to tell you , there was something that ill went . To be short , Sir , this is it , this is it , this is it , That this Maid was very sick , Very , very , very Sick : Sick indeed , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick has god . NOw Dick the Plowman he was busy and this Maid was sham'd to ask , Yet she thought with prithee , prithee , for to win him at the last ; But this was no perfect Cure , perfect Cure , perfect Cure , For her grief increased more , More then e're it did before : And sick she was , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick had god . One Day when Dick was very jol'y , and as he was d [ r ] iving Blow ; Then he spy'd her melancholy , ah ! says Dick , how do you now . Ah! quoth she , I'm very sick , very sick , very sick ; Oh , what shall I do , my Dick , I am very , very sick , Sick , says Dick , I pray for what , Oh , [ f ] or something you have god . And Dick , 'tis you can only Cure me , prithee do't before you go ; Good now Richard , pray assure me , whither you will , aye or no : My dear Richard , don't deny , neither from your promise fly ; For my grievous malady , You can Cure immediately ; Then pray now Richard , give me that I need not name it , you know what . Prithee Betty how should I know , what the thing is that you mean ; Then she s [ i ] ghed , and cry'd Hi-ho , such a Fool was nev [ e ] r seen : I must languish here and die , here and die , here and die ; And can't have a Remedy , For my grievous malady ; Was ever there so dull a Sot , That knows not yet what he has god . When they had understood each other , Dick for joy did leave his Blow ; Gave his Whip unto his Brother , and he Swore he'd Cure her now . Then unto her straight he goes , and his skill to her he shows ; Brisk and blithe she then became , As any one upon the Plain : Now Maids you see what Dick can do , then try if he can Cure you too . FINIS . Printed for C. Lennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 