The Ladies of London's Petition , Or Their Humble Address to the Parliament of old Woe - men for Husbands ; Sign'd by threescore thous - and Hands , and never a crakt Maidenhead , nor widow among them . To the Tune of ; Let Marry live long . YOU Matrons all , with humble submission , We bring our Petition : For Justice we call , pray hear our complaint For the good Marriage state , Is so run down of late , by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears , because he conjectures , the loud curtain lectures . Will ring though his ears , both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'll roar With a noise ten times more , and bottles and Wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second won't wed , for fear that his Beauty , Should stray from her Duty And grafted on his head , a large pair of Horns ; Yet he will have in store , Twenty harlots and more : is this not a shame : To spend youth & Treasure , To spend youth & Treasure , with Girls of the Game , Another replies : he can't bear the bawling , the whining squailing , And terrible cries , of Children when young , Why the fourth cries a wife , Will destroy a Man's Life . and waste him away : These are their Excuses , These are their Excuses , for longer delay : But yet let them know , that Ladies of pleasure , are wasters of treasure , They'll bring a Man low , that follows the sport , Nay the Doctor may hap , For curing the Clap , to pillage his purse . Of more then would Pay for , Of more then would pay for , three Children at Nurse . Be pleas'd to debate , our case with discretion : its worse then oppression , To live at this rate , and spin out our days : Let and Act now be made , That a fine shall be paid , by Men that refuse , To Marry when Twenty , To Marry when Twenty , There's none well excuse . Is it not a shame , That here among Christians Nor Turks nor Philistians , But persons of fame , and learing also , That should wedlock deny Which would yield a supply the Land to defend , From all that oppose us ; From all that oppose us , or dare to contend ? FINIS . The Ladies of London's Petition , Or Their Humble Address to the Parliament of old Woe - men for Husbands ; Sign'd by threescore thous - and Hands , and never a crakt Maidenhead , nor widow among them . To the Tune of ; Let Marry live long . YOU Matrons all , with humble submission , We bring our Petition : For Justice we call , pray hear our complaint For the good Marriage state , Is so run down of late , by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears , because he conjectures , the loud curtain lectures . Will ring though his ears , both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'll roar With a noise ten times more , and bottles and Wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second won't wed , for fear that his Beauty , Should stray from her Duty And grafted on his head , a large pair of Horns ; Yet he will have in store , Twenty harlots and more : is this not a shame : To spend youth & Treasure , To spend youth & Treasure , with Girls of the Game , Another replies : he can't bear the bawling , the whining squailing , And terrible cries , of Children when young , Why the fourth cries a wife , Will destroy a Man's Life . and waste him away : These are their Excuses , These are their Excuses , for longer delay : But yet let them know , that Ladies of pleasure , are wasters of treasure , They'll bring a Man low , that follows the sport , Nay the Doctor may hap , For curing the Clap , to pillage his purse . Of more then would Pay for , Of more then would pay for , three Children at Nurse . Be pleas'd to debate , our case with discretion : its worse then oppression , To live at this rate , and spin out our days : Let and Act now be made , That a fine shall be paid , by Men that refuse , To Marry when Twenty , To Marry when Twenty , There's none well excuse . Is it not a shame , That here among Christians Nor Turks nor Philistians , But persons of fame , and learing also , That should wedlock deny Which would yield a supply the Land to defend , From all that oppose us ; From all that oppose us , or dare to contend ? FINIS . The Ladies of London's Petition , Or Their Humble Address to the Parliament of old Woe - men for Husbands ; Sign'd by threescore thous - and Hands , and never a crakt Maidenhead , nor widow among them . To the Tune of ; Let Marry live long . YOU Matrons all , with humble submission , We bring our Petition : For Justice we call , pray hear our complaint For the good Marriage state , Is so run down of late , by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears , because he conjectures , the loud curtain lectures . Will ring though his ears , both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'll roar With a noise ten times more , and bottles and Wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second won't wed , for fear that his Beauty , Should stray from her Duty And grafted on his head , a large pair of Horns ; Yet he will have in store , Twenty harlots and more : is this not a shame : To spend youth & Treasure , To spend youth & Treasure , with Girls of the Game , Another replies : he can't bear the bawling , the whining squailing , And terrible cries , of Children when young , Why the fourth cries a wife , Will destroy a Man's Life . and waste him away : These are their Excuses , These are their Excuses , for longer delay : But yet let them know , that Ladies of pleasure , are wasters of treasure , They'll bring a Man low , that follows the sport , Nay the Doctor may hap , For curing the Clap , to pillage his purse . Of more then would Pay for , Of more then would pay for , three Children at Nurse . Be pleas'd to debate , our case with discretion : its worse then oppression , To live at this rate , and spin out our days : Let and Act now be made , That a fine shall be paid , by Men that refuse , To Marry when Twenty , To Marry when Twenty , There's none well excuse . Is it not a shame , That here among Christians Nor Turks nor Philistians , But persons of fame , and learing also , That should wedlock deny Which would yield a supply the Land to defend , From all that oppose us ; From all that oppose us , or dare to contend ? FINIS . The Ladies of London's Petition , Or Their Humble Address to the Parliament of old Woe - men for Husbands ; Sign'd by threescore thous - and Hands , and never a crakt Maidenhead , nor widow among them . To the Tune of ; Let Marry live long . YOU Matrons all , with humble submission , We bring our Petition : For Justice we call , pray hear our complaint For the good Marriage state , Is so run down of late , by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears , because he conjectures , the loud curtain lectures . Will ring though his ears , both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'll roar With a noise ten times more , and bottles and Wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second won't wed , for fear that his Beauty , Should stray from her Duty And grafted on his head , a large pair of Horns ; Yet he will have in store , Twenty harlots and more : is this not a shame : To spend youth & Treasure , To spend youth & Treasure , with Girls of the Game , Another replies : he can't bear the bawling , the whining squailing , And terrible cries , of Children when young , Why the fourth cries a wife , Will destroy a Man's Life . and waste him away : These are their Excuses , These are their Excuses , for longer delay : But yet let them know , that Ladies of pleasure , are wasters of treasure , They'll bring a Man low , that follows the sport , Nay the Doctor may hap , For curing the Clap , to pillage his purse . Of more then would Pay for , Of more then would pay for , three Children at Nurse . Be pleas'd to debate , our case with discretion : its worse then oppression , To live at this rate , and spin out our days : Let and Act now be made , That a fine shall be paid , by Men that refuse , To Marry when Twenty , To Marry when Twenty , There's none well excuse . Is it not a shame , That here among Christians Nor Turks nor Philistians , But persons of fame , and learing also , That should wedlock deny Which would yield a supply the Land to defend , From all that oppose us ; From all that oppose us , or dare to contend ? FINIS . 