The Cruel STEP-MOTHER ; Or , The Unhappy Son. YOU most indulgent parents lend and ear , And you a dismal story soon shall hear ; A story strange , yet certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one squire Brown , Whose wealth & riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life ; The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleased to send them some relief . She did conceive and with a son we hear , Great was the joy when she deliver'd were , Much feasting , which for many days did last Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasures that we here can boast , Suddenly fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches who can shun the dart , He has command , and strikes unto the heart . The squire's lady was took wond'rous ill , The doctors us'd in vain their best of skill . All would not do , the fatal stroke death gave , There was no man on earth her life could save . Her husband then he sent for out of hand , Her weeping friends did now around her stand . Her husband came , she said to him , my dear , The time is short I am to tarry here : Be careful of the darling child , your son , See that in virtue's paths he strive to run . That I in heaven may see him once again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake wed not again my dear , For if you do , I cannot rest I fear , Let no stepmother my dear child abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use . My jointure which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him whom i love so dear ; Be you a tender father to your son : Think of my words when I am dead & gone . He said , dearest , thy words I'll keep in mind , And to the child will prove a father kind ; To wrong my child I wrong myself ; you know I love him better than to serve him so . Then for her child she strait way did call , While briny tears down from her eyes did fallen , And kissing him with lips as cold as cold as clay ; The child unto his mother thus did say . Mamma , why do you kiss me so and cry ? I hope you will be better speedily . I hope I shall , sweet dear , she to him said , Then turn'd her self about & quickly dy' [ worser ] She scarce two months in the grave was laid , E'er he forgotten the promises he made ; Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told ; No rest nor quiet would he let her have , Until unto him her consent she gave . She said , before she did to him engage , She had a daughter fair , ten years of age , And therefore she , for her dear daughter's sake , Was resolved first a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should be made , And in much triumph now this couple wed . But during these things were thus even done , He quite forgotten his tender infant son . His new wife was cross and very proud , And his own son never was allow'd , With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman waiting her commn [ worser ] Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is eat ; Beside a waiting maid miss too must have , While the poor lad is made a drudge & slave . Altho' he was thus scorned , yet we find , How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left to him two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have , For to maintain the child so fine and brave ; But if he died e'er to age he came , his father then was to enjoy the same . His mother finding things were ordered so , She was resolved to work his overthrow , Criea she , when he is put away and gone , What's left to him will then bcome my own . She with the devil then did straiway think . And to her husband gave a sleeping drink , And as he within the garden lay , Unto the boy these words did say . Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if you see him wake , or going to rise . Come & tell me , make the best haste you can . And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep ; Then softly she did to his father creep ; Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For aa the innocent boy a sleeping lay She in his pocket worser [ i ] worser the ring convey , Then with great joy into the house did come , And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking soon did rub his eyes But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run , Mean while his father in the house did come . And missing of the ring to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away . Cr'd she , I took it not upon my life , You may believe me as I am your wife . But if you'd know what of it is become , I'd have you to examine well your son , As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him then a fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot straightway him he bound , And lashed him tO [ i ] ll the blood did run , While she , hard hearted wretch , stood gazing on Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he should disgrace the family ; I'll get a master soon for him she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide He gave consent , and she a m [ a ] ster god , And he was sent away , hard was his lot . Where we will leave him to cross the main , And to this wicked wretch return again . But God , who sees our actions here below , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go : For the boy's mother to them did appear , As that [ ey ] in bed one night together were . The apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in every thing . Then did it shake the bed wereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The squire he was very much surpriz'd ; And finding that his wife had told him lies To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despair they say . To add unto his grief , we understand , A letter from his son came to his hand : At Jamaica he was , the letter told , And to a captain there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were tae'n : The ship condemn'd , and they all made slaves , This is kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father seeing this swooned away , Crying unto his wife both night and day , Thou cursed wretch , what is it thou hast done , To make a father thus abuse a son . In grief from home he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Strait made his will , and left his son his store , Then went & hang'd himself before his door . The lawyer finding what he had done , Did send away a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed , And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid , and quickly was reliev'd , He god a ship , and he with speed home came , None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flatt'ring lies Would fain excuse herself : but all in vain : To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her ; 500 l. Beside , Because he basely was by her belo'd . Which vex'd her so , it almost broke her heart To think she with her ill god gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despis'd by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had , and went away , And has not since been herd of to this day . To step mother's let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly , For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless , Let parents all beg of the Lord to see , Their children all bred to maturity . Till for themselves they're able to provide , Lord send you may be their faithful guide . The Cruel STEP-MOTHER ; Or , The Unhappy Son. YOU most indulgent parents lend and ear , And you a dismal story soon shall hear ; A story strange , yet certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one squire Brown , Whose wealth & riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life ; The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleased to send them some relief . She did conceive and with a son we hear , Great was the joy when she deliver'd were , Much feasting , which for many days did last Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasures that we here can boast , Suddenly fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches who can shun the dart , He has command , and strikes unto the heart . The squire's lady was took wond'rous ill , The doctors us'd in vain their best of skill . All would not do , the fatal stroke death gave , There was no man on earth her life could save . Her husband then he sent for out of hand , Her weeping friends did now around her stand . Her husband came , she said to him , my dear , The time is short I am to tarry here : Be careful of the darling child , your son , See that in virtue's paths he strive to run . That I in heaven may see him once again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake wed not again my dear , For if you do , I cannot rest I fear , Let no stepmother my dear child abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use . My jointure which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him whom i love so dear ; Be you a tender father to your son : Think of my words when I am dead & gone . He said , dearest , thy words I'll keep in mind , And to the child will prove a father kind ; To wrong my child I wrong myself ; you know I love him better than to serve him so . Then for her child she strait way did call , While briny tears down from her eyes did fallen , And kissing him with lips as cold as cold as clay ; The child unto his mother thus did say . Mamma , why do you kiss me so and cry ? I hope you will be better speedily . I hope I shall , sweet dear , she to him said , Then turn'd her self about & quickly dy' [ worser ] She scarce two months in the grave was laid , E'er he forgotten the promises he made ; Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told ; No rest nor quiet would he let her have , Until unto him her consent she gave . She said , before she did to him engage , She had a daughter fair , ten years of age , And therefore she , for her dear daughter's sake , Was resolved first a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should be made , And in much triumph now this couple wed . But during these things were thus even done , He quite forgotten his tender infant son . His new wife was cross and very proud , And his own son never was allow'd , With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman waiting her commn [ worser ] Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is eat ; Beside a waiting maid miss too must have , While the poor lad is made a drudge & slave . Altho' he was thus scorned , yet we find , How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left to him two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have , For to maintain the child so fine and brave ; But if he died e'er to age he came , his father then was to enjoy the same . His mother finding things were ordered so , She was resolved to work his overthrow , Criea she , when he is put away and gone , What's left to him will then bcome my own . She with the devil then did straiway think . And to her husband gave a sleeping drink , And as he within the garden lay , Unto the boy these words did say . Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if you see him wake , or going to rise . Come & tell me , make the best haste you can . And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep ; Then softly she did to his father creep ; Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For aa the innocent boy a sleeping lay She in his pocket worser [ i ] worser the ring convey , Then with great joy into the house did come , And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking soon did rub his eyes But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run , Mean while his father in the house did come . And missing of the ring to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away . Cr'd she , I took it not upon my life , You may believe me as I am your wife . But if you'd know what of it is become , I'd have you to examine well your son , As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him then a fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot straightway him he bound , And lashed him tO [ i ] ll the blood did run , While she , hard hearted wretch , stood gazing on Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he should disgrace the family ; I'll get a master soon for him she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide He gave consent , and she a m [ a ] ster god , And he was sent away , hard was his lot . Where we will leave him to cross the main , And to this wicked wretch return again . But God , who sees our actions here below , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go : For the boy's mother to them did appear , As that [ ey ] in bed one night together were . The apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in every thing . Then did it shake the bed wereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The squire he was very much surpriz'd ; And finding that his wife had told him lies To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despair they say . To add unto his grief , we understand , A letter from his son came to his hand : At Jamaica he was , the letter told , And to a captain there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were tae'n : The ship condemn'd , and they all made slaves , This is kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father seeing this swooned away , Crying unto his wife both night and day , Thou cursed wretch , what is it thou hast done , To make a father thus abuse a son . In grief from home he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Strait made his will , and left his son his store , Then went & hang'd himself before his door . The lawyer finding what he had done , Did send away a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed , And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid , and quickly was reliev'd , He god a ship , and he with speed home came , None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flatt'ring lies Would fain excuse herself : but all in vain : To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her ; 500 l. Beside , Because he basely was by her belo'd . Which vex'd her so , it almost broke her heart To think she with her ill god gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despis'd by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had , and went away , And has not since been herd of to this day . To step mother's let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly , For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless , Let parents all beg of the Lord to see , Their children all bred to maturity . Till for themselves they're able to provide , Lord send you may be their faithful guide . 