The CRUEL STEP-MOTHER ; Or , the UNHAPPY SON . Printed and sold by J. DAVENPORT , 6 , George's Court , St. John's Lane , West Smithfield , London . YOU most indulgent parents lend and ear , And soon a dismal story you shall hear , A story strange , but certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one Squire Brown , Whose wealth and riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life , The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleased to send them some relief . She did conceive , and with a son we hear ; Great was the joy when she delivered were , Much feasting , which for many days did last , Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasure that we here can boast So sudden fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches , who can shun the dart ? He has command , and strikes us to the heart . The Squire's lady was took wond'rous ill , The doctors us'd in vain their heaved of skill ; All cannot do , the fatal stroke death gave , And no man that's born h [ e ] r life can save . Her husband then she sent for out of hand , Her weeping friends did now around her stand ; Her husband came , she said to him , My dear , The time is short I have to tarry here . Be careful of the darling child your son , See that in Virtue's paths he strives to run , That I in heaven my see him again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake wed not again , For if you do I cannot rest , I fear , Let no step mother my dear child-abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use My jointure , which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him , whom I love most dear ; Be you a tender father to my son , Think on my words when I'm dead and gone . He said , Dearest , these words I'll keep in mind , I to the child will prove a father kind , To wrong the child I wrong myself , you know , I love the child too well to serve it so . Then for her child she straightway did call , While tears from her cheeks down did fallen , And kissing him with lips as cold as clay , The child did to his fainting mother say : Mamma , what makes you kiss me and cry , I hope you will be better speedily ? I hope I shall , sweet dear , to him she said , Then turned herself and straightway died . She scarce two months in the grave had laid , Ere he forgotten the promise he had made , Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told , No rest of quiet would he let her have , Until her consent she unto him had gave . She said , before she to him did engage , She had a daughter fair , ten years of age , And therefore , for her daughter's sake , She was resolv'd a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should so be made . And in much triumph now this couple wed ; But during the time these things were done , He quite forgotten his dear and only son . His new wife was cross and very proud , And his own son never was allowed , With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman waiting her command . Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is eat ; Beside , a waiting maid too miss must have , While the poor lad is made a drudge and slave . Although he was scorn'd , yet we find , How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left this boy two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have For to maintain the child so fine and brave , But if he died ere to age he came , His father then was to enjoy the same . His stepmother found things were order'd so , She was resolv'd to work his overthrow ; Cries she , When he is put away and gone , What's left to him will soon become my own . She with the devil then did straightway think , And to their husband gave a sleeping drink ; And as he sleeping in the garden lay , Unto the boy these words did say : Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if thou see'st him wake or going to rise , Come and tell me , make the best haste you can ; And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep , Then softly she did to his father creep , Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For as the innocent boy a sleeping lay , She in his pocket did the ring convey , Then with great joy into the house did come , And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking , strait did rub his eyes , But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run ; Meanwhile his father into doors did come . Missing of his ring , he to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away ? Cries she , I took it not , upon my life , You may believe me , as I am you wife . But if you'd know what is of it become , I'd have you examine well your son , As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot strightway him he bound , And lash'd him till the blood did run , While she , hardhearted wretch ! stood gazing on Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he does disgrace your family ; I'll get a master for him soon , she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide . He gave consent , and she a master god . And he was sent away --- hard was his lo Where we will leave him to cross the main , And turn unto this wicked wretch again . But God , who sees our actions here b [ elo ] w , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go , For this boy's mother to them did appear , One night when they in bed together were . This apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in ev'ry thing : Then did she shake the bed whereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The squire he was very much surpris'd , And finding that his wife had told him lies , To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despair , they say . To add unto his grief , we understand , A letter from his son came to his land ; At Jamaica he was , the letter told , And to a captain there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were ta'en ; The ship condemn'd and they were made slaves , This is , kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father , seeing this , then swoon'd away , Crying to his wife , both night and day , Thou cursed wretch , what hast thou now done , To make a father thus abuse his son ! From home in grief he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Made strait his will , and left his son his store , Then went and hanged himself before his door . The lawyer finding what he had done , Did straightway send a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed , And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid and quickly was reliev'd ; He god a ship , and home with speed he came , None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home , unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flattering lies Would fain excuse herself , but all in vain , To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her --- five hundred pounds beside Because he basely was by her bely'd , Which vex'd her so , it soon broke her heart , To think she with her ill-got gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despised by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had and went away , And has not been herd off to this day . To step mother's let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly ; For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless . The CRUEL STEP-MOTHER ; Or , the UNHAPPY SON . Printed and sold by J. DAVENPORT , 6 , George's Court , St. John's Lane , West Smithfield , London . YOU most indulgent parents lend and ear , And soon a dismal story you shall hear , A story strange , but certain true indeed , Enough to make a heart of stone to bleed . In York , that famous city of renown , There liv'd a gentleman , one Squire Brown , Whose wealth and riches were exceeding great , But yet he had no heir to his estate . He had a virtuous , kind , and loving wife , With whom he liv'd a comfortable life , The want of children was their only grief , But God was pleased to send them some relief . She did conceive , and with a son we hear ; Great was the joy when she delivered were , Much feasting , which for many days did last , Both rich and poor did of their bounty taste . It pleased God the child did live and thrive , Until it came unto the age of five ; At five years old his sorrows soar begun , And so continued many years to run . The greatest pleasure that we here can boast So sudden fade , and are but short at most ; When death approaches , who can shun the dart ? He has command , and strikes us to the heart . The Squire's lady was took wond'rous ill , The doctors us'd in vain their heaved of skill ; All cannot do , the fatal stroke death gave , And no man that's born h [ e ] r life can save . Her husband then she sent for out of hand , Her weeping friends did now around her stand ; Her husband came , she said to him , My dear , The time is short I have to tarry here . Be careful of the darling child your son , See that in Virtue's paths he strives to run , That I in heaven my see him again , And there in endless bliss with him remain . For the child's sake wed not again , For if you do I cannot rest , I fear , Let no step mother my dear child-abuse , Whom I so tenderly did love and use My jointure , which is fifty pounds a year , I leave to him , whom I love most dear ; Be you a tender father to my son , Think on my words when I'm dead and gone . He said , Dearest , these words I'll keep in mind , I to the child will prove a father kind , To wrong the child I wrong myself , you know , I love the child too well to serve it so . Then for her child she straightway did call , While tears from her cheeks down did fallen , And kissing him with lips as cold as clay , The child did to his fainting mother say : Mamma , what makes you kiss me and cry , I hope you will be better speedily ? I hope I shall , sweet dear , to him she said , Then turned herself and straightway died . She scarce two months in the grave had laid , Ere he forgotten the promise he had made , Which made the proverb true , as we do find , That out of sighed is quickly out of mind . Unto a rich and wealthy widow old , He went a courting oft , as we are told , No rest of quiet would he let her have , Until her consent she unto him had gave . She said , before she to him did engage , She had a daughter fair , ten years of age , And therefore , for her daughter's sake , She was resolv'd a widow's will to make . He gave consent that it should so be made . And in much triumph now this couple wed ; But during the time these things were done , He quite forgotten his dear and only son . His new wife was cross and very proud , And his own son never was allowed , With them to dine , but at her chair to stand , Just like a footman waiting her command . Her daughter she must at the table fit , And pick and cull the best of what is eat ; Beside , a waiting maid too miss must have , While the poor lad is made a drudge and slave . Although he was scorn'd , yet we find , How fortune unto him did prove so kind , His mother's brother died , as we hear , And left this boy two hundred pounds a year . His father then the interest was to have For to maintain the child so fine and brave , But if he died ere to age he came , His father then was to enjoy the same . His stepmother found things were order'd so , She was resolv'd to work his overthrow ; Cries she , When he is put away and gone , What's left to him will soon become my own . She with the devil then did straightway think , And to their husband gave a sleeping drink ; And as he sleeping in the garden lay , Unto the boy these words did say : Go watch your father as he sleeping lies , And if thou see'st him wake or going to rise , Come and tell me , make the best haste you can ; And so she did this harmless youth trepan . The boy with watching long did go to sleep , Then softly she did to his father creep , Off from his finger she a ring did take , On purpose of this boy a thief to make . For as the innocent boy a sleeping lay , She in his pocket did the ring convey , Then with great joy into the house did come , And said , I hope his business I have done . The lad awaking , strait did rub his eyes , But seeing of his father going to rise , To inform his mother he straightway did run ; Meanwhile his father into doors did come . Missing of his ring , he to her did say , My dear , what makes you take my ring away ? Cries she , I took it not , upon my life , You may believe me , as I am you wife . But if you'd know what is of it become , I'd have you examine well your son , As in the garden you did sleeping dose , I saw him fumbling at your clothes . He went to search his son , the ring he found , Then hand and foot strightway him he bound , And lash'd him till the blood did run , While she , hardhearted wretch ! stood gazing on Cries she , now send this wicked rogue to sea , Lest that he does disgrace your family ; I'll get a master for him soon , she cry'd , For he no longer shall with me abide . He gave consent , and she a master god . And he was sent away --- hard was his lo Where we will leave him to cross the main , And turn unto this wicked wretch again . But God , who sees our actions here b [ elo ] w , He did not let this wretch unpunish'd go , For this boy's mother to them did appear , One night when they in bed together were . This apparition told them of the ring , And how she serv'd the boy in ev'ry thing : Then did she shake the bed whereon they lay , And then it vanished from them away . The squire he was very much surpris'd , And finding that his wife had told him lies , To make him send his poor boy away , He went into a strong despair , they say . To add unto his grief , we understand , A letter from his son came to his land ; At Jamaica he was , the letter told , And to a captain there was basely sold . And as they sailing were upon the main , They by a Spanish privateer were ta'en ; The ship condemn'd and they were made slaves , This is , kind sir , said he , my desperate case . The father , seeing this , then swoon'd away , Crying to his wife , both night and day , Thou cursed wretch , what hast thou now done , To make a father thus abuse his son ! From home in grief he rambled that day , And to a lawyer went without delay , Made strait his will , and left his son his store , Then went and hanged himself before his door . The lawyer finding what he had done , Did straightway send a letter to his son , For to advice him to come home with speed , And money sent to ransom him indeed . Which letter by good fortune he receiv'd , His ransom paid and quickly was reliev'd ; He god a ship , and home with speed he came , None but the lawyer did know of the same . He soon came home , unto the great surprise Of his base mother , who with flattering lies Would fain excuse herself , but all in vain , To law he went with her , and did obtain The cause of her --- five hundred pounds beside Because he basely was by her bely'd , Which vex'd her so , it soon broke her heart , To think she with her ill-got gain must part . Her darling daughter being left alone , Despised by all , and pitied by none , She sold off all she had and went away , And has not been herd off to this day . To step mother's let this a warning be , Never to use poor children cruelly ; For God will help the widow in distress , And be a father to the fatherless . 