ROME in and Uproar ; OR , The Popes BULLS brought to the Baiting-Stake by Old Father Petres . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . WHen England half Ruin'd , had cause to be sad , The Pope's bloody Bulls they began to run mad , Because we had given them Pasture a while , They ran about ranging all over the Isle ; These merciless Beasts , their rage for to feast , They gor'd and had like to have Murder'd our Tes But just in the intrim there came in a Friend , Who did the poor Test from their Fury defend . These Bulls they were kept by that Bear in the Tower , And chiefly were Nourish'd by Dispensing Power : But sometime to feast their devouring Jaws , Their Keeper would give them some scraps of the Laws ; These Bulls have been found in other Men's Ground , But now we have put them in Packington's Pound ; Oh never was Bulls so baited about , For certain , as these will be , e're they come out ; Thus in our Nation a great many Fools , Endeavour'd to Fatten his Holiness Bulls ; The Judges almost out of every Cause , Allow'd them a Pension of Penal Laws ; These Bulls had such power , they'd like to devour Our Church and our Laws , but they now are brought lower Was ever such Impudent Bulls ever known , To toss Sacred Majesty out of the Throne . Their Keeper who was no less Man than a Lord , Were by these Mad Bulls most notoriously Gor'd : They had on they Heads such a Sampson-like power , The cast him at one clever Toss in the Tower ; And some they are jealous that he and his Fellows , Will be tossed from the Tower , to a Scaffold or Gallows : Oh what a sad sighed would it be for to see So many blessed Martyrs to swing on a Tree . We've done with the Keeper , and now for the Driver , Who valued Religion no more than a Stiver : These Bulls being Wanton , and at no Command , They tossed their poor Driver quite out of the Land ; This is a sad matter to lose Ob --------- r , Who has a strange Name , but is stranger by Nature : 'Twould be a sad thing , should he dance the long Jig , For making Division 'twixt Tory and Whigg . These Bulls were so Wanton and Masterless grown , They broke into Pastures that lay nigh the Throne ; They Farted themselves , and they ranged about , And undid the Owner before they come ou He was forc'd out of hand , to leave all his Land , Such damn'd Popish Bulls deserve all to be Hang'd ; More Mischief they did which must not be expressed , I'le leave you alone to imagine the rest . But now these sad Beasts for the Mischief they'd done , Will be to the Slaughter brought every one ; And if that they were but well order'd and dressed , 'Twould make Pope and Devil a delicate Feast ; Their Bull nor their Bears , shall breed no more fears , Nor set us together again by the Ears , We'll out of our Land quickly drive out such Beasts , As popular Rogues , and disquieted Priests . You that are minded to purchase a Hide , Pray lay by your Coin while the Bulls they are try'd , For then at the Gallows you'll see such a heap , And excellent Pennyworth sold very Cheap : Stay but while Sessions , you'll hear such Confessions , As Subtle as e're was the Old Declarations ; But we shall have now a much Honester State , And be no more Bull'd at so simple a rate . Printed in the Year 1689. ROME in and Uproar ; OR , The Popes BULLS brought to the Baiting-Stake by Old Father Petres . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . WHen England half Ruin'd , had cause to be sad , The Pope's bloody Bulls they began to run mad , Because we had given them Pasture a while , They ran about ranging all over the Isle ; These merciless Beasts , their rage for to feast , They gor'd and had like to have Murder'd our Tes But just in the intrim there came in a Friend , Who did the poor Test from their Fury defend . These Bulls they were kept by that Bear in the Tower , And chiefly were Nourish'd by Dispensing Power : But sometime to feast their devouring Jaws , Their Keeper would give them some scraps of the Laws ; These Bulls have been found in other Men's Ground , But now we have put them in Packington's Pound ; Oh never was Bulls so baited about , For certain , as these will be , e're they come out ; Thus in our Nation a great many Fools , Endeavour'd to Fatten his Holiness Bulls ; The Judges almost out of every Cause , Allow'd them a Pension of Penal Laws ; These Bulls had such power , they'd like to devour Our Church and our Laws , but they now are brought lower Was ever such Impudent Bulls ever known , To toss Sacred Majesty out of the Throne . Their Keeper who was no less Man than a Lord , Were by these Mad Bulls most notoriously Gor'd : They had on they Heads such a Sampson-like power , The cast him at one clever Toss in the Tower ; And some they are jealous that he and his Fellows , Will be tossed from the Tower , to a Scaffold or Gallows : Oh what a sad sighed would it be for to see So many blessed Martyrs to swing on a Tree . We've done with the Keeper , and now for the Driver , Who valued Religion no more than a Stiver : These Bulls being Wanton , and at no Command , They tossed their poor Driver quite out of the Land ; This is a sad matter to lose Ob --------- r , Who has a strange Name , but is stranger by Nature : 'Twould be a sad thing , should he dance the long Jig , For making Division 'twixt Tory and Whigg . These Bulls were so Wanton and Masterless grown , They broke into Pastures that lay nigh the Throne ; They Farted themselves , and they ranged about , And undid the Owner before they come ou He was forc'd out of hand , to leave all his Land , Such damn'd Popish Bulls deserve all to be Hang'd ; More Mischief they did which must not be expressed , I'le leave you alone to imagine the rest . But now these sad Beasts for the Mischief they'd done , Will be to the Slaughter brought every one ; And if that they were but well order'd and dressed , 'Twould make Pope and Devil a delicate Feast ; Their Bull nor their Bears , shall breed no more fears , Nor set us together again by the Ears , We'll out of our Land quickly drive out such Beasts , As popular Rogues , and disquieted Priests . You that are minded to purchase a Hide , Pray lay by your Coin while the Bulls they are try'd , For then at the Gallows you'll see such a heap , And excellent Pennyworth sold very Cheap : Stay but while Sessions , you'll hear such Confessions , As Subtle as e're was the Old Declarations ; But we shall have now a much Honester State , And be no more Bull'd at so simple a rate . Printed in the Year 1689. 