King David and Bath-sheba . WHEN David in Jerusalem , As royal king did rule and reign , Behold what happened unto him , Which afterwards did cause him pain . Upon the top of his palace , A gallant prospect there had he , It highly might have pleas'd his grace , Such rural prospects for to see . It came to pass one evening tide , King David on the roof did go , A comely woman there he spy'd , Washing herself , we find 'twas so . Her beauty was most excellent , He thought her brighter than the sun , He being so incontinent , Was to her favour quickly wone . She stood within a pleasant bower , And naked , for to wash her there , Her body as the lily flower , For to behold was very fair . The king was smitten for her love , And what she were he did require , He could not his affections move , For her he had such great desire . She is Uriah's wife said they , A captain of your princely train , He in the wars is now away , And she does now alone remain . The [ n ] said the king , bring her to me , For with love of her my heart is slave , Princess of beauty sure is she , For whom I do much grief sustain . His servants they did soon prepare , To do the message of the king , And Bathsheba , that lady fair , Unto the court did quickly bring . The king rejoiced her to see , He took her and did lie with her , And soon conceived then did she , For by the king with child she were . Unto the king she made her moan , And told him how the case did stand , David sent for her husband home , To cloak the matter now in hand . When from the camp Uriah came , David receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame , Concerning of the enemy . Uriah shew'd his highness all , The accidents of warlike strife , Said David then this night you shall , Keep company with your own wife . The ark of God , Uriah said , With Judah's host and Israel , Encamped are in open field , Not one within the house does dwell , Should I then take my ease , said he , On bed of down with my fair wife , Oh king , he said , that may not be , So long as I enjoy my life . A letter then the king did frame , To Joab , general of his host , And by Uriah sent the same , But certainly his life it lost . And when the king for certain knew , Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Bathsheba to court he drew , And made of her his royal queen . But God who saw this wicked deed , Was angry at king David's since , Nathan the prophet then with speed , Came thus complaining unto him . O David ponder what I say , A great abuse I shall you tell , And thou that rul'st in equity , Should see the people ruled well . Two men within the city dwell , One of them rich , the other poor , In cattle one does much excel , Nothing the other hath in store . Saving one little silly sheep , Which young he did with money buy , With his own bred he did it feed , among his children tenderly . The rich man had a stranger came , Unto his house , that lov'd him dear , The poor man's sheep he then did claim , Of it he made his friend good cheer . Because that he his own would save , He us'd the man's , --- what cruelty ! David then by the Lord did swear , For this fault the rich man should die . Thou art the man the prophet said , A princely crown the Lord gave thee , Uriah's wife thou'st made thy own , And many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defil'd thy life , And slave Uriah with the sword ? And taken home his wedded wife , Regarding not God's holy word ! Behold , therefore , thus says the Lord , Great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my laws abhor'd , Much ill besure I'll bring on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , And give them to thy neighbours use , And thou thereby shalt reap disgrace , For man shall laugh at thy abuse . David then cried out piteously , I sure have sinned against the Lord , In mercy therefore look on me , Nor let my prayers now be abhor'd . But as the prophet told to him , So did it come to him indeed , For God did plague him for his since , As in the bible you may read . The scourge of since we may see here , For murder and adultery ! --- May we obey the Lord with fear , And from such sins always to flee . King David and Bath-sheba . WHEN David in Jerusalem , As royal king did rule and reign , Behold what happened unto him , Which afterwards did cause him pain . Upon the top of his palace , A gallant prospect there had he , It highly might have pleas'd his grace , Such rural prospects for to see . It came to pass one evening tide , King David on the roof did go , A comely woman there he spy'd , Washing herself , we find 'twas so . Her beauty was most excellent , He thought her brighter than the sun , He being so incontinent , Was to her favour quickly wone . She stood within a pleasant bower , And naked , for to wash her there , Her body as the lily flower , For to behold was very fair . The king was smitten for her love , And what she were he did require , He could not his affections move , For her he had such great desire . She is Uriah's wife said they , A captain of your princely train , He in the wars is now away , And she does now alone remain . The [ n ] said the king , bring her to me , For with love of her my heart is slave , Princess of beauty sure is she , For whom I do much grief sustain . His servants they did soon prepare , To do the message of the king , And Bathsheba , that lady fair , Unto the court did quickly bring . The king rejoiced her to see , He took her and did lie with her , And soon conceived then did she , For by the king with child she were . Unto the king she made her moan , And told him how the case did stand , David sent for her husband home , To cloak the matter now in hand . When from the camp Uriah came , David receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame , Concerning of the enemy . Uriah shew'd his highness all , The accidents of warlike strife , Said David then this night you shall , Keep company with your own wife . The ark of God , Uriah said , With Judah's host and Israel , Encamped are in open field , Not one within the house does dwell , Should I then take my ease , said he , On bed of down with my fair wife , Oh king , he said , that may not be , So long as I enjoy my life . A letter then the king did frame , To Joab , general of his host , And by Uriah sent the same , But certainly his life it lost . And when the king for certain knew , Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Bathsheba to court he drew , And made of her his royal queen . But God who saw this wicked deed , Was angry at king David's since , Nathan the prophet then with speed , Came thus complaining unto him . O David ponder what I say , A great abuse I shall you tell , And thou that rul'st in equity , Should see the people ruled well . Two men within the city dwell , One of them rich , the other poor , In cattle one does much excel , Nothing the other hath in store . Saving one little silly sheep , Which young he did with money buy , With his own bred he did it feed , among his children tenderly . The rich man had a stranger came , Unto his house , that lov'd him dear , The poor man's sheep he then did claim , Of it he made his friend good cheer . Because that he his own would save , He us'd the man's , --- what cruelty ! David then by the Lord did swear , For this fault the rich man should die . Thou art the man the prophet said , A princely crown the Lord gave thee , Uriah's wife thou'st made thy own , And many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defil'd thy life , And slave Uriah with the sword ? And taken home his wedded wife , Regarding not God's holy word ! Behold , therefore , thus says the Lord , Great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my laws abhor'd , Much ill besure I'll bring on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , And give them to thy neighbours use , And thou thereby shalt reap disgrace , For man shall laugh at thy abuse . David then cried out piteously , I sure have sinned against the Lord , In mercy therefore look on me , Nor let my prayers now be abhor'd . But as the prophet told to him , So did it come to him indeed , For God did plague him for his since , As in the bible you may read . The scourge of since we may see here , For murder and adultery ! --- May we obey the Lord with fear , And from such sins always to flee . 