Poor Robin's wondered Vision : Or , Englands Warning-piece . Being many strange and miraculous Observations , the like not known in any Age . To the Tune of , Sawny will ne'r be my Love again . WHen drowsy Orbs did begin to appear , & nights sable Curtains drew the scean ; And nodding Somnus seem'd to draw near , charm'd into slumber , I dream'd this Dream : Methought from the North a Crimson Cloud Rose , in the which a numerous crowd Of worse then AEgyptian-locus did shroud , who vex'd the Nation , and made it complain . To whom from the East a scroll was brought , sign'd by the Triple-headed sire of Fate , The which with instructions was amply fraught , how to undermine both Church and State : Horrors and Death's within were inscrib'd , Without dismal stratagems contriv'd , To teach how for Murders & Poisoning to bribe , which alas makes the Nation soar complain . The Scarlet Beasts Pyoneers were set , to undermine the Kingdoms peace ; To lay on their Crimes a counterfeit , and make the tumultuous Rumours cease : While they to set us in flames thought good , And after to quench it with a Flood , Drawn from the sluices of Protestant Blood : which alas makes the Nation to complain . Methought I beheld and Eagle , whose eyes darted Majestic rays of light ; Whom the Vultures strove to surprise , coveting Lustre that shone so brigh But all the Agents mistook the Deed , Instead of C.S. they had Decreed , They seiz'd on E.G. and made him to bleed , which alas makes the Nation to complain . Their Nets they had so slyly laid , to catch the Royal Eagle in ; Were by and O. in season bewray'd , e're Hell had the Commission gin : Their Consistory where they did fit In Counsel , was the Bottomless Pit , From whose damn'd Rage we are not quit , and that's the cause that the Land complains . Tho' twice methought in the Briny Flood , the Pledge of promis'd safety lav'd ; Yet there may still be thirst of blood , unless Jehovah's mercy save : So we that were almost , may be undone , And by their force be hurried on , To worship the Whore of Babylon , for fear of which the Nation complains . Tho' from G.W. we are freed , and though he left his wages behind ; Yet there may be more of the cursed breed , no doubt Hell and Rome can his equal find : Who for that Sum will ambitious be , To act a part in their Treachery , And never start at Iniquity , the which is the cause that the Land complains . The second part , to the same Tune . Dreadful methought those Monsters shew'd , upon whose fronts the fates seem'd to dwell ; With Murders , Treasons , & slaughters imbrew'd which noted them the Springs of Hell : Whose minds are always on mischief bent , And surely they'r those that Scripture meant , Whom Satan to scourge the Kingdoms sent , by reason of which the Nations complain . Much like their Sire are all their train , that bald-Pated Priest that's Fatted in Room , Who over Thieves and Harlots does reign , and yet does disturb civil Nations at home : Sending them out from his dire abode , Whom he with dread Injunctions does load , Biding them fear neither Man nor God , the which makes the Nations soar complain . So that to all sorts of mischiefs they'r prove , infernal Counsels attend on their wills , A Prince is not safe if they eye but his Throne , for Bazilick like Death attends on them still : They'r made up of Murder , Rapin , and spite , Who only in Treason and blood do delight , And care not but at Massacres to fight , which alas makes the Nations to complain . In Darkness they hide their willing heads , lest Day should unrevel their black Crimes , And those that they have on Destruction led , should start from their snare and repent in time : Wherefore they'r Hud-wink'd & made to believe , When they'r in Hell they can give 'um a reprieve And thus they the simple with fallacies deceive , the which makes the Nations to complain . Therefore let England be warn'd by my Dream , and purge herself of so dangerous a Pest , If she her welfare and Peace do esteem , and would for the future have Plenty and res Let her quickly order them all to Room , And if after that to stay they presume , Let the Triangle point out their Doom , and then the Nations will cease to complain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . Poor Robin's wondered Vision : Or , Englands Warning-piece . Being many strange and miraculous Observations , the like not known in any Age . To the Tune of , Sawny will ne'r be my Love again . WHen drowsy Orbs did begin to appear , & nights sable Curtains drew the scean ; And nodding Somnus seem'd to draw near , charm'd into slumber , I dream'd this Dream : Methought from the North a Crimson Cloud Rose , in the which a numerous crowd Of worse then AEgyptian-locus did shroud , who vex'd the Nation , and made it complain . To whom from the East a scroll was brought , sign'd by the Triple-headed sire of Fate , The which with instructions was amply fraught , how to undermine both Church and State : Horrors and Death's within were inscrib'd , Without dismal stratagems contriv'd , To teach how for Murders & Poisoning to bribe , which alas makes the Nation soar complain . The Scarlet Beasts Pyoneers were set , to undermine the Kingdoms peace ; To lay on their Crimes a counterfeit , and make the tumultuous Rumours cease : While they to set us in flames thought good , And after to quench it with a Flood , Drawn from the sluices of Protestant Blood : which alas makes the Nation to complain . Methought I beheld and Eagle , whose eyes darted Majestic rays of light ; Whom the Vultures strove to surprise , coveting Lustre that shone so brigh But all the Agents mistook the Deed , Instead of C.S. they had Decreed , They seiz'd on E.G. and made him to bleed , which alas makes the Nation to complain . Their Nets they had so slyly laid , to catch the Royal Eagle in ; Were by and O. in season bewray'd , e're Hell had the Commission gin : Their Consistory where they did fit In Counsel , was the Bottomless Pit , From whose damn'd Rage we are not quit , and that's the cause that the Land complains . Tho' twice methought in the Briny Flood , the Pledge of promis'd safety lav'd ; Yet there may still be thirst of blood , unless Jehovah's mercy save : So we that were almost , may be undone , And by their force be hurried on , To worship the Whore of Babylon , for fear of which the Nation complains . Tho' from G.W. we are freed , and though he left his wages behind ; Yet there may be more of the cursed breed , no doubt Hell and Rome can his equal find : Who for that Sum will ambitious be , To act a part in their Treachery , And never start at Iniquity , the which is the cause that the Land complains . The second part , to the same Tune . Dreadful methought those Monsters shew'd , upon whose fronts the fates seem'd to dwell ; With Murders , Treasons , & slaughters imbrew'd which noted them the Springs of Hell : Whose minds are always on mischief bent , And surely they'r those that Scripture meant , Whom Satan to scourge the Kingdoms sent , by reason of which the Nations complain . Much like their Sire are all their train , that bald-Pated Priest that's Fatted in Room , Who over Thieves and Harlots does reign , and yet does disturb civil Nations at home : Sending them out from his dire abode , Whom he with dread Injunctions does load , Biding them fear neither Man nor God , the which makes the Nations soar complain . So that to all sorts of mischiefs they'r prove , infernal Counsels attend on their wills , A Prince is not safe if they eye but his Throne , for Bazilick like Death attends on them still : They'r made up of Murder , Rapin , and spite , Who only in Treason and blood do delight , And care not but at Massacres to fight , which alas makes the Nations to complain . In Darkness they hide their willing heads , lest Day should unrevel their black Crimes , And those that they have on Destruction led , should start from their snare and repent in time : Wherefore they'r Hud-wink'd & made to believe , When they'r in Hell they can give 'um a reprieve And thus they the simple with fallacies deceive , the which makes the Nations to complain . Therefore let England be warn'd by my Dream , and purge herself of so dangerous a Pest , If she her welfare and Peace do esteem , and would for the future have Plenty and res Let her quickly order them all to Room , And if after that to stay they presume , Let the Triangle point out their Doom , and then the Nations will cease to complain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 