Charming AMINTAS : OR , The Yielding VIRGIN . To a Pleasant New Tune . This may be Printed . WHen first Amintas su'd for a Kiss , my innocent Heart was tender ; That though I push'd him away from the bliss , my Eyes declar'd my Heart was wone : I fain and awful kindness wou'd use , before I the Fort did surrender : But Love would suffer no more such abuse , and soon ( alas ) my Cheats was known : He'd fit all day , and laugh and play , a thousand pretty things he'd say : My hand he'd squeeze , and press my knees , till further on he god by degrees . My heart just like a Vessel at Sea , Wou'd toss when Amintas was near me ; But ah ! so cunning a Pilot was he , Through doubts and fears he'd still sail on , I thought in him no danger cou'd be , So wisely he knew how to Steer me , And soon alas ! was brought to agree , To taste of Joys before unknown : Well might he boast , his pains not lost , For soon he found the Golden Coast ; Enjoy'd the Oar , and touched the shore , Where never Merchant went before . Soft Blushes always came in my Face , Whenever Amintas drew near me ; He told me Roses looked with such grace , And pretty fair dazies when Summer comes on He pressed me , kissed me with so much love , I could not deny him the Blessing : And with such sweet Words my heart he did move That soon I yielded to him alone . So Violets by the Sun are wone , To spread their Leaves and be undone ; The heat does warm and sweetly charm , And makes young Maids forget all the harm . A thousand times that he would be true , Amintas protested unto me ; He then his soft Kisses again wou'd renew , So Balmy and sweet , that I soon was woe [ n ] With sighs and vows he rais'd such a fire , That made my young heart to surrender : And then by his Art he still blew it up higher , Till Maiden-doubts and fears were gone . None could resist whenever he list , So gently soft and sweet he kissed , His Head he'd rest upon my Breast , And those soft tender Pillows he be pressed , The Marble stone will melt by degrees , If often soft Due does drop on it ; Amintas he any Maiden might please , To yield to his Arms , and like me to be w [ ? ] Could any resist such gentle soft charms , Such vows , such sighs , and such kisses ? Could any repine at so sweet a Youths arms : She sure must yield , or else be a Drone . We will not loose no time in Rhime , But say that Maidens in their prime : Should for their Head take Tom or Ned , For Flint will break on Feather Bed. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . Charming AMINTAS : OR , The Yielding VIRGIN . To a Pleasant New Tune . This may be Printed . WHen first Amintas su'd for a Kiss , my innocent Heart was tender ; That though I push'd him away from the bliss , my Eyes declar'd my Heart was wone : I fain and awful kindness wou'd use , before I the Fort did surrender : But Love would suffer no more such abuse , and soon ( alas ) my Cheats was known : He'd fit all day , and laugh and play , a thousand pretty things he'd say : My hand he'd squeeze , and press my knees , till further on he god by degrees . My heart just like a Vessel at Sea , Wou'd toss when Amintas was near me ; But ah ! so cunning a Pilot was he , Through doubts and fears he'd still sail on , I thought in him no danger cou'd be , So wisely he knew how to Steer me , And soon alas ! was brought to agree , To taste of Joys before unknown : Well might he boast , his pains not lost , For soon he found the Golden Coast ; Enjoy'd the Oar , and touched the shore , Where never Merchant went before . Soft Blushes always came in my Face , Whenever Amintas drew near me ; He told me Roses looked with such grace , And pretty fair dazies when Summer comes on He pressed me , kissed me with so much love , I could not deny him the Blessing : And with such sweet Words my heart he did move That soon I yielded to him alone . So Violets by the Sun are wone , To spread their Leaves and be undone ; The heat does warm and sweetly charm , And makes young Maids forget all the harm . A thousand times that he would be true , Amintas protested unto me ; He then his soft Kisses again wou'd renew , So Balmy and sweet , that I soon was woe [ n ] With sighs and vows he rais'd such a fire , That made my young heart to surrender : And then by his Art he still blew it up higher , Till Maiden-doubts and fears were gone . None could resist whenever he list , So gently soft and sweet he kissed , His Head he'd rest upon my Breast , And those soft tender Pillows he be pressed , The Marble stone will melt by degrees , If often soft Due does drop on it ; Amintas he any Maiden might please , To yield to his Arms , and like me to be w [ ? ] Could any resist such gentle soft charms , Such vows , such sighs , and such kisses ? Could any repine at so sweet a Youths arms : She sure must yield , or else be a Drone . We will not loose no time in Rhime , But say that Maidens in their prime : Should for their Head take Tom or Ned , For Flint will break on Feather Bed. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 