True Relation of the Life and Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune , Come follow my Love , etc WHen Flora with her fragrant flowers bedect the earth so trim and gay , And Neptune with his dainty showers came to present the month of May ; King Henry would a hunting ride , over the river of Thames passed he , Unto a mountain top also did walk some pleasure for to see : Where forty Merchant's he espied , with fifty sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arriv'd , but on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace , we cannot sail to France no voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail , and robs us of our marchant-ware . Vexed was the King , and turning him said to his Lords of high degree , Have I ne'r a Lord within my Realm dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Charles Lord Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then speak King Henry , I fear , my Lord , you are too young . No whit at all , my Liege , quoth he ; I hope to prove in valour strong : The Scotch Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring ashore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred Men , the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship-bois , to guide a great ship on the Sea ; Bowmen and Gunners of good skill shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His age was threescore years and ten , and Peter Simon was his name : My Lord call'd then a Bowman rare , whose active hands had gained fame , A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Horsely , quoth he , I must to Sea to seek a Traitor with good speed ; Of a hundred Bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be the Head. If you , my Lord , have chosen me of a hundred Men to be the Head , Upon the mainmast i'll hanged be , if twelvescore I miss one shillings breadth . Lord Howard then of courage bold , went to the Sea with pleasant cheer , Not curb'd with winter's piercing cold , though it was the stormy time of Year , Not long he had been on the Sea , on more in days than number three , But one Henry Hunt there he espy'd , a Merchant of New-castle was he , To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or where he did intend to land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind , My Lord , my ship it does belong unto New-castle upon Tine . Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , as thou didst sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton , Knight ? Then the Merchant sigh'd and said , with grieved mind and wellaway , But overwell I know that Wight , I was his Prisoner yesterday ; As I , my Lord , did sail from France , a Burdeaux-voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who rob'd me of my merchant-ware : And much debts God knows I owe , and every Man does crave his own ; And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , let me once the Villain see , And e'ry penny he hath from thee taken , i'll double the same with shillings three . Now God forbid , the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss : God bless you from his tyranny , for little you think what Man he is , He is brass within and steel without , his ship most huge and mighty strong , With eighteen pieces of ordnance he carrieth on each side along : With beams for his top-castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Portugal can Sir Andrew Barton pass by . Hard news thou shew'st , then said the Lord , to welcome Stranger to the Sea : But as I said i'll bring him aboard , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said , If you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal , Let no Man to his top-castle go , nor strive to let his beams down fallen : Lend me seven pieces of ordnance then of each side of my ship , said he , And tomorrow , my Lord , again I will your Honour see : A glass i'll set as may be seen , whither you sail by day or night ; And tomorrow besure before seven you shall see Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a glass so well apparent in his sighed , That on the morrow , as his promise was , he saw Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty oath , Now by the Heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him thus scornfully to pass by , As though he cared not a pin for him and all his Company ; Then called he his Men amain , Fetch back yond Pedlar now , quoth he , And e're this way he comes again , i'll teach him well his courtesy . Fetch me my lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & streamer high ; Set up withal a willow-wand , that Merchant like I may pass by . Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass , and on anchor rise so high ; No topsail at last he cast , but as a Foe did him defy . A piece of ordnance soon was shot , by this proud Pirate fiercely then , Into Lord Howard's middle deck , which cruel shot kill'd fourteen Men . He called then Peter Simon , he , Look how thy word do stand instead , For thou shall be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss twelvescore one penny breadth . Then Peter Simon gave a shot , which did Sir Andrew much scare , In at his deck it came so hight kill'd fifteen of his Men of war : Alas , then said the Pirate stout , I am in danger now I see ; This is some Lord , I greatly fear that is set on to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his deck , and killed fifty of his Men beside : Then out , alas , Sir Andrew cry'd , What may a Man now think or say , Yond Merchant-thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordian call , unto the top-castle for to go , And bid his beams he should let fallen , for he greatly fear'd and overthrow . The Lord call'd Horsely now in haste , Look that thy word now stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss twelve score a shilling breadth . Then up mast-tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordian , But Horsely he most happily shot him under the collar-bone : Then call'd he on his Nephew then , said , Sister's Sons I have no more , Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to top-castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the mast scorn'd to depart . But Horsely soon prevented him , and deadly pierc'd him to the heart . His Men being slave , then up amain did this proud Pirate climb with speed ; For armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of arrows dread : Come hither Horsely , said the Lord , see thou thy arrows aim aright , Great means to thee I will afford , and if thou speed'st i'll make the Knigh Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , with right good will and all his main ; Then upon the breast hit Horsely he , till the arrow did return again : Then Horsely 'spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part , His arrow switly flew apace , and smote Sir Andrew to the hear Fight on , fight on , my merry Men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'll but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again : And do not , said he , fear English Rogues , and of your Foes stand not in awe , But stand fast by St. Andrew's cross , until you hear my whistle blow . They never herd his whistle blow , which made them all full soar afraid . Then Horsely said , My Lord aboard , for now Sir Andrew Barton's dead ; Thus boarded they this gallant ship , with right good will and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , beside as many more was slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence cut off his head ; I should forsake England many a day , if thou were alive as thou art dead . Thus from the wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing ; The Pirate's head he brought along for to present unto our King : Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done , Where is the Knight and Pirate gay , that I myself may give the doom . You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four Men in the ship , quoth he , True Relation of the Life and Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune , Come follow my Love , etc WHen Flora with her fragrant flowers bedect the earth so trim and gay , And Neptune with his dainty showers came to present the month of May ; King Henry would a hunting ride , over the river of Thames passed he , Unto a mountain top also did walk some pleasure for to see : Where forty Merchant's he espied , with fifty sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arriv'd , but on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace , we cannot sail to France no voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail , and robs us of our marchant-ware . Vexed was the King , and turning him said to his Lords of high degree , Have I ne'r a Lord within my Realm dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Charles Lord Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then speak King Henry , I fear , my Lord , you are too young . No whit at all , my Liege , quoth he ; I hope to prove in valour strong : The Scotch Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring ashore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred Men , the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship-bois , to guide a great ship on the Sea ; Bowmen and Gunners of good skill shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His age was threescore years and ten , and Peter Simon was his name : My Lord call'd then a Bowman rare , whose active hands had gained fame , A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Horsely , quoth he , I must to Sea to seek a Traitor with good speed ; Of a hundred Bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be the Head. If you , my Lord , have chosen me of a hundred Men to be the Head , Upon the mainmast i'll hanged be , if twelvescore I miss one shillings breadth . Lord Howard then of courage bold , went to the Sea with pleasant cheer , Not curb'd with winter's piercing cold , though it was the stormy time of Year , Not long he had been on the Sea , on more in days than number three , But one Henry Hunt there he espy'd , a Merchant of New-castle was he , To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or where he did intend to land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind , My Lord , my ship it does belong unto New-castle upon Tine . Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , as thou didst sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton , Knight ? Then the Merchant sigh'd and said , with grieved mind and wellaway , But overwell I know that Wight , I was his Prisoner yesterday ; As I , my Lord , did sail from France , a Burdeaux-voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who rob'd me of my merchant-ware : And much debts God knows I owe , and every Man does crave his own ; And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , let me once the Villain see , And e'ry penny he hath from thee taken , i'll double the same with shillings three . Now God forbid , the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss : God bless you from his tyranny , for little you think what Man he is , He is brass within and steel without , his ship most huge and mighty strong , With eighteen pieces of ordnance he carrieth on each side along : With beams for his top-castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Portugal can Sir Andrew Barton pass by . Hard news thou shew'st , then said the Lord , to welcome Stranger to the Sea : But as I said i'll bring him aboard , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said , If you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal , Let no Man to his top-castle go , nor strive to let his beams down fallen : Lend me seven pieces of ordnance then of each side of my ship , said he , And tomorrow , my Lord , again I will your Honour see : A glass i'll set as may be seen , whither you sail by day or night ; And tomorrow besure before seven you shall see Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a glass so well apparent in his sighed , That on the morrow , as his promise was , he saw Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty oath , Now by the Heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him thus scornfully to pass by , As though he cared not a pin for him and all his Company ; Then called he his Men amain , Fetch back yond Pedlar now , quoth he , And e're this way he comes again , i'll teach him well his courtesy . Fetch me my lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & streamer high ; Set up withal a willow-wand , that Merchant like I may pass by . Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass , and on anchor rise so high ; No topsail at last he cast , but as a Foe did him defy . A piece of ordnance soon was shot , by this proud Pirate fiercely then , Into Lord Howard's middle deck , which cruel shot kill'd fourteen Men . He called then Peter Simon , he , Look how thy word do stand instead , For thou shall be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss twelvescore one penny breadth . Then Peter Simon gave a shot , which did Sir Andrew much scare , In at his deck it came so hight kill'd fifteen of his Men of war : Alas , then said the Pirate stout , I am in danger now I see ; This is some Lord , I greatly fear that is set on to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his deck , and killed fifty of his Men beside : Then out , alas , Sir Andrew cry'd , What may a Man now think or say , Yond Merchant-thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordian call , unto the top-castle for to go , And bid his beams he should let fallen , for he greatly fear'd and overthrow . The Lord call'd Horsely now in haste , Look that thy word now stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss twelve score a shilling breadth . Then up mast-tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordian , But Horsely he most happily shot him under the collar-bone : Then call'd he on his Nephew then , said , Sister's Sons I have no more , Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to top-castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the mast scorn'd to depart . But Horsely soon prevented him , and deadly pierc'd him to the heart . His Men being slave , then up amain did this proud Pirate climb with speed ; For armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of arrows dread : Come hither Horsely , said the Lord , see thou thy arrows aim aright , Great means to thee I will afford , and if thou speed'st i'll make the Knigh Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , with right good will and all his main ; Then upon the breast hit Horsely he , till the arrow did return again : Then Horsely 'spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part , His arrow switly flew apace , and smote Sir Andrew to the hear Fight on , fight on , my merry Men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'll but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again : And do not , said he , fear English Rogues , and of your Foes stand not in awe , But stand fast by St. Andrew's cross , until you hear my whistle blow . They never herd his whistle blow , which made them all full soar afraid . Then Horsely said , My Lord aboard , for now Sir Andrew Barton's dead ; Thus boarded they this gallant ship , with right good will and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , beside as many more was slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence cut off his head ; I should forsake England many a day , if thou were alive as thou art dead . Thus from the wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing ; The Pirate's head he brought along for to present unto our King : Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done , Where is the Knight and Pirate gay , that I myself may give the doom . You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four Men in the ship , quoth he , That we are safely come ashore , sith you never had such and Enemy : That is Henry Hunt and Peter Simon , William Horsely and Peter's Son ; Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , In lieu of what he hath from the taken , I give to thee a noble a day , Sir Andrew's whistle and his chain : To Peter Simon a crown a day ; and half a crown a day to Peter's Son ; And that was for a shot so gay which bravely brought Sir Andrew down : Horsely I will make the a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Bury hight , for this title he deserveth well : Seven shillings to our English Men , who in this fight did stoutly stand ; And twelvepence a day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother King's high Land. Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . That we are safely come ashore , sith you never had such and Enemy : That is Henry Hunt and Peter Simon , William Horsely and Peter's Son ; Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , In lieu of what he hath from the taken , I give to thee a noble a day , Sir Andrew's whistle and his chain : To Peter Simon a crown a day ; and half a crown a day to Peter's Son ; And that was for a shot so gay which bravely brought Sir Andrew down : Horsely I will make the a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Bury hight , for this title he deserveth well : Seven shillings to our English Men , who in this fight did stoutly stand ; And twelvepence a day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother King's high Land. Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 