The BREATH of LIFE . Being and account of a Young Man that went to Sea , thinking it a pleasant Life ; but soon found his Mistake . Prettily expressed in Sea Terms . WHen first I drew the Breath of Life , 'Twas in the merry month of June , The fourteenth day as I was told , When Roses they were in their bloom . In seventeen hundred and five , It was the date of the year . My parents did for me provide , The best of learning I declare . When I grew up they ask'd me thus , What trade they should for me provide ? O then I answer'd them again , My mind's to cross the ocean wide . My whimsical brain did fully show , The pleasures seamen enjoy'd at sea ; But not the sorrow , grief , nor woe , They suffer in extremity . If there be pleasure on the seas , 'Tis when the Wind and Weather's fair , With a bowl of punch here's to you Jack , I thank you Will , let's drown all care . Hardships we know there is full well , But we must never flinch altho' Dark dismal night and lofty seas , Contrary winds , hail , rain , and blow . When we are on the raging main , With wind right aft , and a pleasant gale , Oh then we have our heart's desire , When we can spread abroad our sail , Our mainsail haul'd up in the brail , Our foresail drove us bravely thro' . Our topsail and topgallant sails , When hoist , make a gallant show . Now when the wind won't stand I am afraid It weareth forward I plainly see , Get the foretack down to the cat-head , The maintop down to the larchestree . Down studding sails , aloe and aluft , And put them by boys for this time , And stow your stay-sails before and aft , And trim your sails unto the wind , And now she'll hardly lay her course , So let us get our tacks on board , Our sheets laid aft and our bawling haul , And see all things else prepar'd . We must expect to head the sea , Where foaming billows aloud do roar , Like hills and dales the main looks you see Now our pleasant sail is o'er . Instead of studding now 'tis luff , Don't fallen off my boys , thus , and no near , The Grampus blows a lofty spout , The sky looks dismal I declare . It's in topgallant sail , my boys , Haul down your topmast , stay-sails too , We have met with a tartar I'm afraid , We will settle our three topsails low . Now boys let us reel while we have time , Let run your topsail haul the yard down , The roar and maintop bowling gone , Set the weather braces round . And fill your sails my hearts of led , Haul your keel-tacks also ; It will blow hard I do perceive , Let's clew them up while we are below . The single reef in eath topsail , And to fur them it is agreed ; So bear a hand my hearts of gold , And make haste down with nimble speed . And see your jeers before clear and aft , Your haul down tackle-hood also , And see all things ready prepar'd , Both up aloft and down below . Brail up your mizzen snug my boys , And cheerful lower away your yard ; The sky looks black and dismal too , Which plainly shows it will blow hard , A good hand stand by the main sheet , And see all clear to let it fly ; It looks as thick as buttermilk , And will be with us by and by . So hard a weather goes the helm , Let fly the mainsheet now with speed , This furious squall will soon be o'er , It breaks apace I do perceive , Come haul aft your main sheets again , Luff round my boys , lets loose no ground , The sky looks dark and dismal too , We will surely lower our foreyard down . So forward now my heart of gold , Let go your lifts in the first place , A sturdy fellow to the jeers , And strength is required at the brace . Your down haul tackles must be man'd , Clue garnets , burnt-lines , and lift-lines too Ease off your sheet , let rise your tack , And now my boys lets clue him up , Belay your lifts securely hard , Then up aloft him snug , Quoil your ropes , and then come aft , And well all hands tipple the nut brown jug And now our helm is lash'd a-lee , And all things are secure aloft ; You at the helm pray mind the glass , How she comes too , and likewise falls off , The storm increases more and more , We'll up and make a reef in the main sail . In one consent let it be agreed , Let's seamen's courage never fail , And to your station now my boys , Pray stand by seamen every one . Ease off your sheet , let rise your tack , Set in your brace your bow-lines down , When this is done , then down we come , To see what more we have to do ; We loose our mizzen in the brails , We balance him and set him too : Now he's balanc'd in a trice , Sway up the yard , haul aft the sheet , No sooner spoke but away she flies , And leave the bolt rope in his stead , Our goodly ship lies dangerous too , In the surge of all the sea , And takes us upon the broadside , And makes o'er us a passage free . You see the danger we are in , For God's sake boys what shall we do ? Its better to sail before the wind , I'm sure my boys than thus lie too . In one consent let's be agreed , In readiness prepare all things : And bunt our fore-sails securely fast , And well seud under our goose wings . Now steady , steady is the word , Pray msnd your helm . Steady starboard , No sooner spoke but brought too ; Pray stop her , its hard a port , Pray mind the motion of her head , For God's sake keep off , don't bring her to For all our lives lie at stake , Our goodly ship and cargo too ; No sooner spoke but away she flies , Alas , they strove in vain , For down she lies all on the careen , As if she'd never rise again . We being now in this distress , Our mizzen mast we cut away , Thinking to lighten her again . But all in vain , still down she lay . You see what dangers we are in , The best of comfort we can afford , To lighten our ships , and save our lives , We cut our mainmast by the board . The seas they roar'd like mountains high , Which stav'd our boat in pieces small ; Of all our lofty standing masts , Our foremast top stood and that was all ; Now to conclude and make and end , I wish I had known as much before , I would have chosen some other trade , And liv'd contented on the shore . The BREATH of LIFE . Being and account of a Young Man that went to Sea , thinking it a pleasant Life ; but soon found his Mistake . Prettily expressed in Sea Terms . WHen first I drew the Breath of Life , 'Twas in the merry month of June , The fourteenth day as I was told , When Roses they were in their bloom . In seventeen hundred and five , It was the date of the year . My parents did for me provide , The best of learning I declare . When I grew up they ask'd me thus , What trade they should for me provide ? O then I answer'd them again , My mind's to cross the ocean wide . My whimsical brain did fully show , The pleasures seamen enjoy'd at sea ; But not the sorrow , grief , nor woe , They suffer in extremity . If there be pleasure on the seas , 'Tis when the Wind and Weather's fair , With a bowl of punch here's to you Jack , I thank you Will , let's drown all care . Hardships we know there is full well , But we must never flinch altho' Dark dismal night and lofty seas , Contrary winds , hail , rain , and blow . When we are on the raging main , With wind right aft , and a pleasant gale , Oh then we have our heart's desire , When we can spread abroad our sail , Our mainsail haul'd up in the brail , Our foresail drove us bravely thro' . Our topsail and topgallant sails , When hoist , make a gallant show . Now when the wind won't stand I am afraid It weareth forward I plainly see , Get the foretack down to the cat-head , The maintop down to the larchestree . Down studding sails , aloe and aluft , And put them by boys for this time , And stow your stay-sails before and aft , And trim your sails unto the wind , And now she'll hardly lay her course , So let us get our tacks on board , Our sheets laid aft and our bawling haul , And see all things else prepar'd . We must expect to head the sea , Where foaming billows aloud do roar , Like hills and dales the main looks you see Now our pleasant sail is o'er . Instead of studding now 'tis luff , Don't fallen off my boys , thus , and no near , The Grampus blows a lofty spout , The sky looks dismal I declare . It's in topgallant sail , my boys , Haul down your topmast , stay-sails too , We have met with a tartar I'm afraid , We will settle our three topsails low . Now boys let us reel while we have time , Let run your topsail haul the yard down , The roar and maintop bowling gone , Set the weather braces round . And fill your sails my hearts of led , Haul your keel-tacks also ; It will blow hard I do perceive , Let's clew them up while we are below . The single reef in eath topsail , And to fur them it is agreed ; So bear a hand my hearts of gold , And make haste down with nimble speed . And see your jeers before clear and aft , Your haul down tackle-hood also , And see all things ready prepar'd , Both up aloft and down below . Brail up your mizzen snug my boys , And cheerful lower away your yard ; The sky looks black and dismal too , Which plainly shows it will blow hard , A good hand stand by the main sheet , And see all clear to let it fly ; It looks as thick as buttermilk , And will be with us by and by . So hard a weather goes the helm , Let fly the mainsheet now with speed , This furious squall will soon be o'er , It breaks apace I do perceive , Come haul aft your main sheets again , Luff round my boys , lets loose no ground , The sky looks dark and dismal too , We will surely lower our foreyard down . So forward now my heart of gold , Let go your lifts in the first place , A sturdy fellow to the jeers , And strength is required at the brace . Your down haul tackles must be man'd , Clue garnets , burnt-lines , and lift-lines too Ease off your sheet , let rise your tack , And now my boys lets clue him up , Belay your lifts securely hard , Then up aloft him snug , Quoil your ropes , and then come aft , And well all hands tipple the nut brown jug And now our helm is lash'd a-lee , And all things are secure aloft ; You at the helm pray mind the glass , How she comes too , and likewise falls off , The storm increases more and more , We'll up and make a reef in the main sail . In one consent let it be agreed , Let's seamen's courage never fail , And to your station now my boys , Pray stand by seamen every one . Ease off your sheet , let rise your tack , Set in your brace your bow-lines down , When this is done , then down we come , To see what more we have to do ; We loose our mizzen in the brails , We balance him and set him too : Now he's balanc'd in a trice , Sway up the yard , haul aft the sheet , No sooner spoke but away she flies , And leave the bolt rope in his stead , Our goodly ship lies dangerous too , In the surge of all the sea , And takes us upon the broadside , And makes o'er us a passage free . You see the danger we are in , For God's sake boys what shall we do ? Its better to sail before the wind , I'm sure my boys than thus lie too . In one consent let's be agreed , In readiness prepare all things : And bunt our fore-sails securely fast , And well seud under our goose wings . Now steady , steady is the word , Pray msnd your helm . Steady starboard , No sooner spoke but brought too ; Pray stop her , its hard a port , Pray mind the motion of her head , For God's sake keep off , don't bring her to For all our lives lie at stake , Our goodly ship and cargo too ; No sooner spoke but away she flies , Alas , they strove in vain , For down she lies all on the careen , As if she'd never rise again . We being now in this distress , Our mizzen mast we cut away , Thinking to lighten her again . But all in vain , still down she lay . You see what dangers we are in , The best of comfort we can afford , To lighten our ships , and save our lives , We cut our mainmast by the board . The seas they roar'd like mountains high , Which stav'd our boat in pieces small ; Of all our lofty standing masts , Our foremast top stood and that was all ; Now to conclude and make and end , I wish I had known as much before , I would have chosen some other trade , And liv'd contented on the shore . 