Needs must when the DEVIL drives : or , AND EMBLEM Of what we must expect if High-Church gets uppermost . EXPLANATION When first Mankind were swayed by Passive Ruls , Princes turned Tyrants and their subject's Fools : These laid aside their Sense those took the Sword ; And , I Will be Obeyed , was then the Word . To which the silly senseless Slaves replied We're all your Asses pray get up and Ride If ever their Sovereign bid them cut their Throat , The Wretch made no demur , but cried he'd do't If Heads were sent for , unjust Sentence given , He that withstood his Prince , resisted Heaven : So rather than they would their King control , The People damned themselves to save their Souls . Passive Obedience , thus at first began , And Non Resistance , by the side oned ran , Till after many Years and Ages past , The World grew old , and Men grew wise at last . Nations that long , in vain for help had prayed , At length called in their Reason to their aid : Wisely considering that our God above , Whose most Essential Attribute is Love , Who sent his only Son to save Mankind , Such Cruelty could never have designed , Whole Kingdoms , to create to be undone By the ambitious Tyranny of one , Who could , by Nature , no Distinction boast , But , by the Instigation of his Lust , Seemed rather from the lower Regions hurled First to debauch , and then to damn the World . Thus by degrees , in Arms whole Nations rose , Their Rights assert , and Tyranny oppose : And so of late Brittania's Offspring fired By Nature's Laws and solid Sense inspired , One Tyrant Prince by force of Arms withstood , And Crowned a Man more Righteous in his stead , But some there are that near will be Content With any sort or kind of Government . These Curse the Means that did our safety bring , And wish they still retained their Tyrant King . To AEgypt back again they long to fly , And hope they may be Slaves before they Die . Let such ( unprejudiced ) but view this Print , They'll find there's something that's uncommon in't . The Devil drives the Coach in it's a Vi --------- The Steeds are fierce ; the Doctor he's Postillion : Gallows , and Wooden Shoes are placed behind ; ( At lest our Author he hath so designed ) To show the Nation what must be their Doom . When the Pretender to the Throne shall come : When Moderation like a Victim lies , And Arbitrary Power in its place shall rise ; The Nation ( but in vain ) shall then implore That Toleration which they damned before : Our Laws , our Liberties , shall be a Prey To Gallick Fury , and Tyrrannick Sway : Our Wives , our Children , all that now we boast To call our own , will be forever los Your Lands will be to Monks and Friars given , And you must part with Gold to purchase Heaven . Let who will say ther's nothing in this print , I'll swear the DOCTOR and the devil's in't . Needs must when the DEVIL drives : or , AND EMBLEM Of what we must expect if High-Church gets uppermost . EXPLANATION When first Mankind were swayed by Passive Ruls , Princes turned Tyrants and their subject's Fools : These laid aside their Sense those took the Sword ; And , I Will be Obeyed , was then the Word . To which the silly senseless Slaves replied We're all your Asses pray get up and Ride If ever their Sovereign bid them cut their Throat , The Wretch made no demur , but cried he'd do't If Heads were sent for , unjust Sentence given , He that withstood his Prince , resisted Heaven : So rather than they would their King control , The People damned themselves to save their Souls . Passive Obedience , thus at first began , And Non Resistance , by the side oned ran , Till after many Years and Ages past , The World grew old , and Men grew wise at last . Nations that long , in vain for help had prayed , At length called in their Reason to their aid : Wisely considering that our God above , Whose most Essential Attribute is Love , Who sent his only Son to save Mankind , Such Cruelty could never have designed , Whole Kingdoms , to create to be undone By the ambitious Tyranny of one , Who could , by Nature , no Distinction boast , But , by the Instigation of his Lust , Seemed rather from the lower Regions hurled First to debauch , and then to damn the World . Thus by degrees , in Arms whole Nations rose , Their Rights assert , and Tyranny oppose : And so of late Brittania's Offspring fired By Nature's Laws and solid Sense inspired , One Tyrant Prince by force of Arms withstood , And Crowned a Man more Righteous in his stead , But some there are that near will be Content With any sort or kind of Government . These Curse the Means that did our safety bring , And wish they still retained their Tyrant King . To AEgypt back again they long to fly , And hope they may be Slaves before they Die . Let such ( unprejudiced ) but view this Print , They'll find there's something that's uncommon in't . The Devil drives the Coach in it's a Vi --------- The Steeds are fierce ; the Doctor he's Postillion : Gallows , and Wooden Shoes are placed behind ; ( At lest our Author he hath so designed ) To show the Nation what must be their Doom . When the Pretender to the Throne shall come : When Moderation like a Victim lies , And Arbitrary Power in its place shall rise ; The Nation ( but in vain ) shall then implore That Toleration which they damned before : Our Laws , our Liberties , shall be a Prey To Gallick Fury , and Tyrrannick Sway : Our Wives , our Children , all that now we boast To call our own , will be forever los Your Lands will be to Monks and Friars given , And you must part with Gold to purchase Heaven . Let who will say ther's nothing in this print , I'll swear the DOCTOR and the devil's in't . Needs must when the DEVIL drives : or , AND EMBLEM Of what we must expect if High-Church gets uppermost . EXPLANATION When first Mankind were swayed by Passive Ruls , Princes turned Tyrants and their subject's Fools : These laid aside their Sense those took the Sword ; And , I Will be Obeyed , was then the Word . To which the silly senseless Slaves replied We're all your Asses pray get up and Ride If ever their Sovereign bid them cut their Throat , The Wretch made no demur , but cried he'd do't If Heads were sent for , unjust Sentence given , He that withstood his Prince , resisted Heaven : So rather than they would their King control , The People damned themselves to save their Souls . Passive Obedience , thus at first began , And Non Resistance , by the side oned ran , Till after many Years and Ages past , The World grew old , and Men grew wise at last . Nations that long , in vain for help had prayed , At length called in their Reason to their aid : Wisely considering that our God above , Whose most Essential Attribute is Love , Who sent his only Son to save Mankind , Such Cruelty could never have designed , Whole Kingdoms , to create to be undone By the ambitious Tyranny of one , Who could , by Nature , no Distinction boast , But , by the Instigation of his Lust , Seemed rather from the lower Regions hurled First to debauch , and then to damn the World . Thus by degrees , in Arms whole Nations rose , Their Rights assert , and Tyranny oppose : And so of late Brittania's Offspring fired By Nature's Laws and solid Sense inspired , One Tyrant Prince by force of Arms withstood , And Crowned a Man more Righteous in his stead , But some there are that near will be Content With any sort or kind of Government . These Curse the Means that did our safety bring , And wish they still retained their Tyrant King . To AEgypt back again they long to fly , And hope they may be Slaves before they Die . Let such ( unprejudiced ) but view this Print , They'll find there's something that's uncommon in't . The Devil drives the Coach in it's a Vi --------- The Steeds are fierce ; the Doctor he's Postillion : Gallows , and Wooden Shoes are placed behind ; ( At lest our Author he hath so designed ) To show the Nation what must be their Doom . When the Pretender to the Throne shall come : When Moderation like a Victim lies , And Arbitrary Power in its place shall rise ; The Nation ( but in vain ) shall then implore That Toleration which they damned before : Our Laws , our Liberties , shall be a Prey To Gallick Fury , and Tyrrannick Sway : Our Wives , our Children , all that now we boast To call our own , will be forever los Your Lands will be to Monks and Friars given , And you must part with Gold to purchase Heaven . Let who will say ther's nothing in this print , I'll swear the DOCTOR and the devil's in't . Needs must when the DEVIL drives : or , AND EMBLEM Of what we must expect if High-Church gets uppermost . EXPLANATION When first Mankind were swayed by Passive Ruls , Princes turned Tyrants and their subject's Fools : These laid aside their Sense those took the Sword ; And , I Will be Obeyed , was then the Word . To which the silly senseless Slaves replied We're all your Asses pray get up and Ride If ever their Sovereign bid them cut their Throat , The Wretch made no demur , but cried he'd do't If Heads were sent for , unjust Sentence given , He that withstood his Prince , resisted Heaven : So rather than they would their King control , The People damned themselves to save their Souls . Passive Obedience , thus at first began , And Non Resistance , by the side oned ran , Till after many Years and Ages past , The World grew old , and Men grew wise at last . Nations that long , in vain for help had prayed , At length called in their Reason to their aid : Wisely considering that our God above , Whose most Essential Attribute is Love , Who sent his only Son to save Mankind , Such Cruelty could never have designed , Whole Kingdoms , to create to be undone By the ambitious Tyranny of one , Who could , by Nature , no Distinction boast , But , by the Instigation of his Lust , Seemed rather from the lower Regions hurled First to debauch , and then to damn the World . Thus by degrees , in Arms whole Nations rose , Their Rights assert , and Tyranny oppose : And so of late Brittania's Offspring fired By Nature's Laws and solid Sense inspired , One Tyrant Prince by force of Arms withstood , And Crowned a Man more Righteous in his stead , But some there are that near will be Content With any sort or kind of Government . These Curse the Means that did our safety bring , And wish they still retained their Tyrant King . To AEgypt back again they long to fly , And hope they may be Slaves before they Die . Let such ( unprejudiced ) but view this Print , They'll find there's something that's uncommon in't . The Devil drives the Coach in it's a Vi --------- The Steeds are fierce ; the Doctor he's Postillion : Gallows , and Wooden Shoes are placed behind ; ( At lest our Author he hath so designed ) To show the Nation what must be their Doom . When the Pretender to the Throne shall come : When Moderation like a Victim lies , And Arbitrary Power in its place shall rise ; The Nation ( but in vain ) shall then implore That Toleration which they damned before : Our Laws , our Liberties , shall be a Prey To Gallick Fury , and Tyrrannick Sway : Our Wives , our Children , all that now we boast To call our own , will be forever los Your Lands will be to Monks and Friars given , And you must part with Gold to purchase Heaven . Let who will say ther's nothing in this print , I'll swear the DOCTOR and the devil's in't . 