A True Relation of the Life and death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune is Come follow my love . WHen Flora with her fragrant flowers , bedect the earth so trim and gay , And Neptune with her dainty showers , came to present the Month of May : King Henry would a Hunting ride , over the River of Thames passed he , Unto a Mountain top also , did walk some pleasure for to see . Where forty Merchant's he espied , with fifty sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arriv'd , but on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace we cannot sail , to France no Voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail , and robs us of our Merchant ware . Vert was the King , and turned him , said to his Lords of high degree , Have I ne'r a Lord within my realm , dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Lord Charles Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then speak King Henry , I fear , my Lord you are too young , No whit at all my Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in Valour strong : The Scotish Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring ashore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship-bois , to guide a great Ship on the Sea , Bowmen and Gunners of good skill , shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will , in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His age was threescore years and ten , and Peter Simon was his name : My Lord call'd then a Bowman rare , whose active hands had gained fame ; A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Horsely ( quoth he ) I must to Sea , to seek a Traitor with good speed , Of a hundred Bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be the head . If you , my Lord , have chosen me of a Hundred men to be the Head , Upon the main Mast i'le hanged be , if twelvescore I miss one shillings breadth . Lord Howard then of Courage bold , went to the Sea with pleasant cheer , Not curb'd with Winter's piercing cold , though it was the stormy time of year , Not long he had been on the Sea , no more in days than number three , But one Henry Hunt there he espy'd , a Merchant of New-Castle was he , To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or where he did intend to Land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind , My Lord , my Ship it does belong unto New-castle upon Tine , Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , as thou didst sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton Knigh Then the Merchant sigh'd and said , with grieved mind and well away , But overwell I know that wight , I was his Prisoner yesterday : As I ( my Lord , did sail from France , a Burdeaux Voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who rob'd me of my Merchant ware . And much debts God knows I owe , and every Man does crave his own , And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a Boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , let me once the Villain see , And e'ery penny he hath from thee ane , I'll double the same with shillings three . Now God forbid , the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss . God bless you from his Tyranny , for little you think what man he is : He is Brass within and Steel without , his Ship most huge and mighty strong , With eighteen pieces of Ordinance , he carrieth on each side along : With Beams for his Top-Castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Portugal , can Sir Andrew Barton pass by : Hard news thou shew'st , then said the Lord , to welcome Strangers to the Sea , But as I said i'le bring him aboard , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said if you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal , Let no man to his Top-Castle go , nor strive to let his Beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordinance then , of each side of my Ship , said he , And tomorrow , my Lord , again I will your honour see . A Glass i'le set as may be seen , whither you sail by day or night , And tomorrow be sure before seven , you shall see Sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a Glass . so well apparent in his sighed , That on the morrow , as his promise was , he saw Sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , now by the Heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by Troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him , thus scornfully to pass by , As though he cared not a pin , for him and all his Company . Then called he his men amain , fetch back yond Pedlar , now quoth he , And e'er this way he comes again , i'le teach him well his Courtesy . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & streamer high , Set up withal a Wyllow wand , that Merchant like I may pass by . Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass , and on Anchor rise so high ; No Topsail at last he cast , but as a Foe did him defy . A piece of Ordanance soon was shot by this proud Pyrate fiercely then . Into Lord Howards middle Deck , which cruel shot kill'd fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon , he , look how thy word do stand instead , For thou shall be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score one penny breadth , Then Peter Simon gave a shot , which did Sir Andrew much scare , In at his Deck it came so hight , kill'd fifteen of his men of War. Alas , then said the Pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see , This is some Lord I greatly fear , that is set on to Conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his Deck , and killed fifty of his men beside : Then out alas , Sir Andrew cry'd , what may a man now think or say , Yond Merchant Thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then d [ i ] worser he on Gordian call , unto Top Castle for to go , And bid his Beams he should let fallen . for I greatly fear and overthrow . The Lord call'd Horsely now in haste , look that thy word now stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score a shillings breadth . Then up mast tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordion , But Horsely he most happily , shot him under the Collar Bone . Then call'd he on his Nephew then , said , Sisters Sons I have no more , Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to Top-Castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the Mast scorn'd to depart . But Horsely soon prevented him , and deadly pierc'd him to the heart . His men being slave , then up amain , did this proud Pyrate climb with speed ; For Armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of Arrows dread . Come hither Horsely , said the Lord , see thou thy Arrows aim aright , Great means to thee I will afford , and if thou speed'st i'le make thee a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , with right good will and all his main , Then upon the Breast hit Horsely he , till the Arrow did return again . Then Horsely spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part , His Arrow swiftly slew a pace , and smote Sir Andrew to the heart . Fight on , fight on , my merry men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'le but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again . And do not , said he , fear English Rogues , and of your Foes stand not in awe , But stand fast by Sir Andrews Cross , until you hear my whistle blow , They never herd his Whistle blow . which made them all full soar afraid , Then Horsely said , my Lord aboard , for now Sir Andrew Barton's dead , Thus Boarded they this Gallant Ship , with right good will and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , beside as many more was slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence cut off his head , I should forsak'd England many a day , if thou wertenberg alive as thou art dead : Thus from the Wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing , The Pirates head he brought along , for to present unto our King . Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done , Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay , that I myself may give the Doom , You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four men in the Ship q A True Relation of the Life and death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune is Come follow my love . WHen Flora with her fragrant flowers , bedect the earth so trim and gay , And Neptune with her dainty showers , came to present the Month of May : King Henry would a Hunting ride , over the River of Thames passed he , Unto a Mountain top also , did walk some pleasure for to see . Where forty Merchant's he espied , with fifty sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arriv'd , but on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace we cannot sail , to France no Voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail , and robs us of our Merchant ware . Vert was the King , and turned him , said to his Lords of high degree , Have I ne'r a Lord within my realm , dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Lord Charles Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then speak King Henry , I fear , my Lord you are too young , No whit at all my Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in Valour strong : The Scotish Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring ashore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship-bois , to guide a great Ship on the Sea , Bowmen and Gunners of good skill , shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will , in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His age was threescore years and ten , and Peter Simon was his name : My Lord call'd then a Bowman rare , whose active hands had gained fame ; A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Horsely ( quoth he ) I must to Sea , to seek a Traitor with good speed , Of a hundred Bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be the head . If you , my Lord , have chosen me of a Hundred men to be the Head , Upon the main Mast i'le hanged be , if twelvescore I miss one shillings breadth . Lord Howard then of Courage bold , went to the Sea with pleasant cheer , Not curb'd with Winter's piercing cold , though it was the stormy time of year , Not long he had been on the Sea , no more in days than number three , But one Henry Hunt there he espy'd , a Merchant of New-Castle was he , To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or where he did intend to Land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind , My Lord , my Ship it does belong unto New-castle upon Tine , Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , as thou didst sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton Knigh Then the Merchant sigh'd and said , with grieved mind and well away , But overwell I know that wight , I was his Prisoner yesterday : As I ( my Lord , did sail from France , a Burdeaux Voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who rob'd me of my Merchant ware . And much debts God knows I owe , and every Man does crave his own , And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a Boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , let me once the Villain see , And e'ery penny he hath from thee ane , I'll double the same with shillings three . Now God forbid , the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss . God bless you from his Tyranny , for little you think what man he is : He is Brass within and Steel without , his Ship most huge and mighty strong , With eighteen pieces of Ordinance , he carrieth on each side along : With Beams for his Top-Castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Portugal , can Sir Andrew Barton pass by : Hard news thou shew'st , then said the Lord , to welcome Strangers to the Sea , But as I said i'le bring him aboard , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said if you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal , Let no man to his Top-Castle go , nor strive to let his Beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordinance then , of each side of my Ship , said he , And tomorrow , my Lord , again I will your honour see . A Glass i'le set as may be seen , whither you sail by day or night , And tomorrow be sure before seven , you shall see Sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a Glass . so well apparent in his sighed , That on the morrow , as his promise was , he saw Sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , now by the Heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by Troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him , thus scornfully to pass by , As though he cared not a pin , for him and all his Company . Then called he his men amain , fetch back yond Pedlar , now quoth he , And e'er this way he comes again , i'le teach him well his Courtesy . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & streamer high , Set up withal a Wyllow wand , that Merchant like I may pass by . Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass , and on Anchor rise so high ; No Topsail at last he cast , but as a Foe did him defy . A piece of Ordanance soon was shot by this proud Pyrate fiercely then . Into Lord Howards middle Deck , which cruel shot kill'd fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon , he , look how thy word do stand instead , For thou shall be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score one penny breadth , Then Peter Simon gave a shot , which did Sir Andrew much scare , In at his Deck it came so hight , kill'd fifteen of his men of War. Alas , then said the Pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see , This is some Lord I greatly fear , that is set on to Conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his Deck , and killed fifty of his men beside : Then out alas , Sir Andrew cry'd , what may a man now think or say , Yond Merchant Thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then d [ i ] worser he on Gordian call , unto Top Castle for to go , And bid his Beams he should let fallen . for I greatly fear and overthrow . The Lord call'd Horsely now in haste , look that thy word now stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score a shillings breadth . Then up mast tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordion , But Horsely he most happily , shot him under the Collar Bone . Then call'd he on his Nephew then , said , Sisters Sons I have no more , Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to Top-Castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the Mast scorn'd to depart . But Horsely soon prevented him , and deadly pierc'd him to the heart . His men being slave , then up amain , did this proud Pyrate climb with speed ; For Armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of Arrows dread . Come hither Horsely , said the Lord , see thou thy Arrows aim aright , Great means to thee I will afford , and if thou speed'st i'le make thee a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , with right good will and all his main , Then upon the Breast hit Horsely he , till the Arrow did return again . Then Horsely spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part , His Arrow swiftly slew a pace , and smote Sir Andrew to the heart . Fight on , fight on , my merry men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'le but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again . And do not , said he , fear English Rogues , and of your Foes stand not in awe , But stand fast by Sir Andrews Cross , until you hear my whistle blow , They never herd his Whistle blow . which made them all full soar afraid , Then Horsely said , my Lord aboard , for now Sir Andrew Barton's dead , Thus Boarded they this Gallant Ship , with right good will and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , beside as many more was slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence cut off his head , I should forsak'd England many a day , if thou wertenberg alive as thou art dead : Thus from the Wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing , The Pirates head he brought along , for to present unto our King . Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done , Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay , that I myself may give the Doom , You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four men in the Ship quoth he , That we are safely come ashore , sith you never had such and Enemy . That is Henry Hunt , and Peter Simon , William Horsely and Peters Sun ; Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , in lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I give to thee a Noble a day , Sir Andrews Whistle and his Chain . To Peter Simon a Crown day , and half a Crown a day to Peters Son , And that was for a shot so gay , which bravely brought Sir Andrew down . Horsely I will make thee a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Bury hight , for this Title he deserveth well . Seven Shillings to our English men , who in this fight did stoutly stand , And 12 pence a day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother Kings high Land. Printed for Alex. Milbourn , W. Onley , and T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . uoth he , That we are safely come ashore , sith you never had such and Enemy . That is Henry Hunt , and Peter Simon , William Horsely and Peters Sun ; Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , in lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I give to thee a Noble a day , Sir Andrews Whistle and his Chain . To Peter Simon a Crown day , and half a Crown a day to Peters Son , And that was for a shot so gay , which bravely brought Sir Andrew down . Horsely I will make thee a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Bury hight , for this Title he deserveth well . Seven Shillings to our English men , who in this fight did stoutly stand , And 12 pence a day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother Kings high Land. Printed for Alex. Milbourn , W. Onley , and T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . 