THE Seaman's Complaint OF His Unkind Mistress , Of Wapping . Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well : Or , Languishing Swain . WHen I went early in the spring , On Board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me , She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my Arms , I thought she had a thousand Charms , Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To Marry next time we did meet . A golden Chain I did present , She seemed very well content , She sigh'd , and said , it breaks my Heart , To think my love and I must part . While I was sailing on the Sea , I took all opportunity , To send Letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne're could hear . When we were Booming of a Town , Where Cannonballs flew up and down , I' th' worst of all those Dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her Name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your Love she does defy . Said I , what mean you Sir by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is , To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another wife . Cursed on all false love where e're it be , A curse on all such Perjury : A curse on those who e're do make Or break a Vow for Riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the Pleasures of a wife ; Adieu all false hearts here on shore , For I will ne're see England more . I'll go where Bombs and Cannons play , Where they ne'er cease both night nor day I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my hearts delight , I bid unto the world good night , I'd rather be where Bullets fly , Than in a woman's company . Printed for Charles Barnet . 1694. THE Seaman's Complaint OF His Unkind Mistress , Of Wapping . Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well : Or , Languishing Swain . WHen I went early in the spring , On Board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me , She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my Arms , I thought she had a thousand Charms , Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To Marry next time we did meet . A golden Chain I did present , She seemed very well content , She sigh'd , and said , it breaks my Heart , To think my love and I must part . While I was sailing on the Sea , I took all opportunity , To send Letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne're could hear . When we were Booming of a Town , Where Cannonballs flew up and down , I' th' worst of all those Dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her Name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your Love she does defy . Said I , what mean you Sir by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is , To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another wife . Cursed on all false love where e're it be , A curse on all such Perjury : A curse on those who e're do make Or break a Vow for Riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the Pleasures of a wife ; Adieu all false hearts here on shore , For I will ne're see England more . I'll go where Bombs and Cannons play , Where they ne'er cease both night nor day I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my hearts delight , I bid unto the world good night , I'd rather be where Bullets fly , Than in a woman's company . Printed for Charles Barnet . 1694. THE Seaman's Complaint OF His Unkind Mistress , Of Wapping . Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well : Or , Languishing Swain . WHen I went early in the spring , On Board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me , She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my Arms , I thought she had a thousand Charms , Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To Marry next time we did meet . A golden Chain I did present , She seemed very well content , She sigh'd , and said , it breaks my Heart , To think my love and I must part . While I was sailing on the Sea , I took all opportunity , To send Letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne're could hear . When we were Booming of a Town , Where Cannonballs flew up and down , I' th' worst of all those Dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her Name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your Love she does defy . Said I , what mean you Sir by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is , To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another wife . Cursed on all false love where e're it be , A curse on all such Perjury : A curse on those who e're do make Or break a Vow for Riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the Pleasures of a wife ; Adieu all false hearts here on shore , For I will ne're see England more . I'll go where Bombs and Cannons play , Where they ne'er cease both night nor day I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my hearts delight , I bid unto the world good night , I'd rather be where Bullets fly , Than in a woman's company . Printed for Charles Barnet . 1694. THE Seaman's Complaint OF His Unkind Mistress , Of Wapping . Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well : Or , Languishing Swain . WHen I went early in the spring , On Board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me , She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my Arms , I thought she had a thousand Charms , Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To Marry next time we did meet . A golden Chain I did present , She seemed very well content , She sigh'd , and said , it breaks my Heart , To think my love and I must part . While I was sailing on the Sea , I took all opportunity , To send Letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne're could hear . When we were Booming of a Town , Where Cannonballs flew up and down , I' th' worst of all those Dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her Name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your Love she does defy . Said I , what mean you Sir by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is , To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another wife . Cursed on all false love where e're it be , A curse on all such Perjury : A curse on those who e're do make Or break a Vow for Riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the Pleasures of a wife ; Adieu all false hearts here on shore , For I will ne're see England more . I'll go where Bombs and Cannons play , Where they ne'er cease both night nor day I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my hearts delight , I bid unto the world good night , I'd rather be where Bullets fly , Than in a woman's company . Printed for Charles Barnet . 1694. 