THE French King's Lamentation FOR The Miscarriage of Monsieur Guiscard . Being a New Song , to and Excellent New Tune . Sung at the Opera Theatre in COVENT-GARDEN . I . WHEN Lewis the Great Had herd of the Fate Of Guiscard , his booted Apostle ; Not Scarron's Delight , His Maintenon bright , Cou'd allay in his Breast the fierce Bustle . II Sure Monarch , he cry'd , Was never so try'd , And his Schemes so well laid all defeated : For whatever I do , Still Fortune's my Foe , And like her cast Bully I'm treated . III . What have I not done ( For the Cause as my own ) To restore my young Brother Pretender ? Spar'd Labour , nor Cost , But all have been lost , To impose on their Faith a Defender . IV. For these Nine Years and more , It has been my chief Lore , To preach up their Churches great Danger : Both People and Priest Have been caught with the Jest , And I aim'd by dividing to change her . V. My Troops of the Gown With some Hope's have gone on ; But alas all my Strength and my Cunning ! Both by Land and by Sea , To my Sorrow must say , Have ended in Beating or Running . VI . And now when the last Of my Schemes , and the best , Was ripe , and my Priest on his Mission : To have Plot and Knife broke , At the finishing Stroke , Is the worst that the Devil cou'd wish one . VII . Ravillac the Bold , And Jaques Clement of old , Each their Catholic Daggers cou'd settle In the Heart of a King ; But my Tool must begin Quite wrong , and with Heretic Metal . VIII . And now , as 'tis said , He in Pickle is laid , And Marlborough again comes for Arras : Shou'd it prove not a Lie , In what a pickle am I , For he'll stop not a Mile short of Paris . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . THE French King's Lamentation FOR The Miscarriage of Monsieur Guiscard . Being a New Song , to and Excellent New Tune . Sung at the Opera Theatre in COVENT-GARDEN . I . WHEN Lewis the Great Had herd of the Fate Of Guiscard , his booted Apostle ; Not Scarron's Delight , His Maintenon bright , Cou'd allay in his Breast the fierce Bustle . II Sure Monarch , he cry'd , Was never so try'd , And his Schemes so well laid all defeated : For whatever I do , Still Fortune's my Foe , And like her cast Bully I'm treated . III . What have I not done ( For the Cause as my own ) To restore my young Brother Pretender ? Spar'd Labour , nor Cost , But all have been lost , To impose on their Faith a Defender . IV. For these Nine Years and more , It has been my chief Lore , To preach up their Churches great Danger : Both People and Priest Have been caught with the Jest , And I aim'd by dividing to change her . V. My Troops of the Gown With some Hope's have gone on ; But alas all my Strength and my Cunning ! Both by Land and by Sea , To my Sorrow must say , Have ended in Beating or Running . VI . And now when the last Of my Schemes , and the best , Was ripe , and my Priest on his Mission : To have Plot and Knife broke , At the finishing Stroke , Is the worst that the Devil cou'd wish one . VII . Ravillac the Bold , And Jaques Clement of old , Each their Catholic Daggers cou'd settle In the Heart of a King ; But my Tool must begin Quite wrong , and with Heretic Metal . VIII . And now , as 'tis said , He in Pickle is laid , And Marlborough again comes for Arras : Shou'd it prove not a Lie , In what a pickle am I , For he'll stop not a Mile short of Paris . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . THE French King's Lamentation FOR The Miscarriage of Monsieur Guiscard . Being a New Song , to and Excellent New Tune . Sung at the Opera Theatre in COVENT-GARDEN . I . WHEN Lewis the Great Had herd of the Fate Of Guiscard , his booted Apostle ; Not Scarron's Delight , His Maintenon bright , Cou'd allay in his Breast the fierce Bustle . II Sure Monarch , he cry'd , Was never so try'd , And his Schemes so well laid all defeated : For whatever I do , Still Fortune's my Foe , And like her cast Bully I'm treated . III . What have I not done ( For the Cause as my own ) To restore my young Brother Pretender ? Spar'd Labour , nor Cost , But all have been lost , To impose on their Faith a Defender . IV. For these Nine Years and more , It has been my chief Lore , To preach up their Churches great Danger : Both People and Priest Have been caught with the Jest , And I aim'd by dividing to change her . V. My Troops of the Gown With some Hope's have gone on ; But alas all my Strength and my Cunning ! Both by Land and by Sea , To my Sorrow must say , Have ended in Beating or Running . VI . And now when the last Of my Schemes , and the best , Was ripe , and my Priest on his Mission : To have Plot and Knife broke , At the finishing Stroke , Is the worst that the Devil cou'd wish one . VII . Ravillac the Bold , And Jaques Clement of old , Each their Catholic Daggers cou'd settle In the Heart of a King ; But my Tool must begin Quite wrong , and with Heretic Metal . VIII . And now , as 'tis said , He in Pickle is laid , And Marlborough again comes for Arras : Shou'd it prove not a Lie , In what a pickle am I , For he'll stop not a Mile short of Paris . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . THE French King's Lamentation FOR The Miscarriage of Monsieur Guiscard . Being a New Song , to and Excellent New Tune . Sung at the Opera Theatre in COVENT-GARDEN . I . WHEN Lewis the Great Had herd of the Fate Of Guiscard , his booted Apostle ; Not Scarron's Delight , His Maintenon bright , Cou'd allay in his Breast the fierce Bustle . II Sure Monarch , he cry'd , Was never so try'd , And his Schemes so well laid all defeated : For whatever I do , Still Fortune's my Foe , And like her cast Bully I'm treated . III . What have I not done ( For the Cause as my own ) To restore my young Brother Pretender ? Spar'd Labour , nor Cost , But all have been lost , To impose on their Faith a Defender . IV. For these Nine Years and more , It has been my chief Lore , To preach up their Churches great Danger : Both People and Priest Have been caught with the Jest , And I aim'd by dividing to change her . V. My Troops of the Gown With some Hope's have gone on ; But alas all my Strength and my Cunning ! Both by Land and by Sea , To my Sorrow must say , Have ended in Beating or Running . VI . And now when the last Of my Schemes , and the best , Was ripe , and my Priest on his Mission : To have Plot and Knife broke , At the finishing Stroke , Is the worst that the Devil cou'd wish one . VII . Ravillac the Bold , And Jaques Clement of old , Each their Catholic Daggers cou'd settle In the Heart of a King ; But my Tool must begin Quite wrong , and with Heretic Metal . VIII . And now , as 'tis said , He in Pickle is laid , And Marlborough again comes for Arras : Shou'd it prove not a Lie , In what a pickle am I , For he'll stop not a Mile short of Paris . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . 