The SEAMAN's COMPLAINT FOR HIS Unkind Mistress of Wapping : Together with The Young Woman's Answer in her own Vindication . To the Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order , etc WHen I went early in the spring , On board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me ; She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my arms , I thought she had a thousand charms ; Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To marry next time we did meet . A golden chain I did present , She seemed very well content ; She sigh'd , and said , It breaks my heart , To think my Love and I must part . While I was sailing on the sea , I took all opportunity , To send letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne'r could hear . When we were booming of a town , Where cannonballs flew up and down , I'th' worst of all those dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your love she does defy . Said I , what mean you , Sir , by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another Wife . Cursed on all false love where-e'r it be , A curse on all such perjury ; A curse on those who [ ' ] r do make , Or break a vow for riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! Women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the pleasures of a Wife , Adieu all false-hearts here on shore , For I will ne'r see England more . I'll go where boombs and cannons play , Where they ne'r cease both night nor day , I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my heart's delight , I bid unto the World good night , I'd rather be where bullets fly , Than in a Woman's company . The young Woman's Answer . IN e'ry street I hear 'em sing My Love's complaint , who serv'd thee I went with him to the Boy i' th' Nore , And could have gone all the World o're . He says my love appeared true , I do declare it was so too ; And let his love be ne'r so great , Mine was as much , tho' unfortunate . A golden chain I had of him , Which I will freely return again ; As for my sighing when we did part , 'Twas from the bottom of my heart . Then both of us did straight agree , At his return married to be ; As for his letters he sent to Town , I do declare I ne'r had one . But now I find it ( tho' too late ) My Love complains of his hard fate , But 'tis my Father's fault indeed , He often said that you were dead . Those letters that you sent to me , My Father would not let me see ; But always said , Child be at rest , For thy Sweetheart was slave at Breast . Then he persuaded me to wed To a rich old Man that's almost dead ; It's true I'm married , and am a Wife , I wish I'd liv'd single all my life . I always lov'd a Seaman brave , And once I was in hope's to have Him which I now ne'r expect to see ; You Maidens all then pity me . While we are young and once in love , It looks like blessings from above ; Yet our Friends oftentimes will make Us break those vows for riches sake . And as for gold and silver too , I freely curse it as well as you ; For if that had not caus'd this strife , Then you and I had been Man and Wife . Although we both are crossed in love , Your resolution I'd have you move ; Since now you see the fault's not mine , Think not so hard on womankind . Where one Woman is false in love , A hundred Men they false do prove ; Tho' I lay not this charge to you , Nor I hope you don't think me untrue . Return , return , I beg my Dear , For here are thousand Women here , That are more beautiful than I , Therefore ne'r go where bullets fly . 'Twould be the comfort of my life , To see you have a happy Wife , Tho' I am crossed , 'twill ease my pain , To see you once return'd again . London : Printed for Charles Baker . The SEAMAN's COMPLAINT FOR HIS Unkind Mistress of Wapping : Together with The Young Woman's Answer in her own Vindication . To the Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order , etc WHen I went early in the spring , On board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me ; She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my arms , I thought she had a thousand charms ; Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To marry next time we did meet . A golden chain I did present , She seemed very well content ; She sigh'd , and said , It breaks my heart , To think my Love and I must part . While I was sailing on the sea , I took all opportunity , To send letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne'r could hear . When we were booming of a town , Where cannonballs flew up and down , I'th' worst of all those dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your love she does defy . Said I , what mean you , Sir , by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another Wife . Cursed on all false love where-e'r it be , A curse on all such perjury ; A curse on those who [ ' ] r do make , Or break a vow for riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! Women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the pleasures of a Wife , Adieu all false-hearts here on shore , For I will ne'r see England more . I'll go where boombs and cannons play , Where they ne'r cease both night nor day , I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my heart's delight , I bid unto the World good night , I'd rather be where bullets fly , Than in a Woman's company . The young Woman's Answer . IN e'ry street I hear 'em sing My Love's complaint , who serv'd thee I went with him to the Boy i' th' Nore , And could have gone all the World o're . He says my love appeared true , I do declare it was so too ; And let his love be ne'r so great , Mine was as much , tho' unfortunate . A golden chain I had of him , Which I will freely return again ; As for my sighing when we did part , 'Twas from the bottom of my heart . Then both of us did straight agree , At his return married to be ; As for his letters he sent to Town , I do declare I ne'r had one . But now I find it ( tho' too late ) My Love complains of his hard fate , But 'tis my Father's fault indeed , He often said that you were dead . Those letters that you sent to me , My Father would not let me see ; But always said , Child be at rest , For thy Sweetheart was slave at Breast . Then he persuaded me to wed To a rich old Man that's almost dead ; It's true I'm married , and am a Wife , I wish I'd liv'd single all my life . I always lov'd a Seaman brave , And once I was in hope's to have Him which I now ne'r expect to see ; You Maidens all then pity me . While we are young and once in love , It looks like blessings from above ; Yet our Friends oftentimes will make Us break those vows for riches sake . And as for gold and silver too , I freely curse it as well as you ; For if that had not caus'd this strife , Then you and I had been Man and Wife . Although we both are crossed in love , Your resolution I'd have you move ; Since now you see the fault's not mine , Think not so hard on womankind . Where one Woman is false in love , A hundred Men they false do prove ; Tho' I lay not this charge to you , Nor I hope you don't think me untrue . Return , return , I beg my Dear , For here are thousand Women here , That are more beautiful than I , Therefore ne'r go where bullets fly . 'Twould be the comfort of my life , To see you have a happy Wife , Tho' I am crossed , 'twill ease my pain , To see you once return'd again . London : Printed for Charles Baker . The SEAMAN's COMPLAINT FOR HIS Unkind Mistress of Wapping : Together with The Young Woman's Answer in her own Vindication . To the Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order , etc WHen I went early in the spring , On board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me ; She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my arms , I thought she had a thousand charms ; Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To marry next time we did meet . A golden chain I did present , She seemed very well content ; She sigh'd , and said , It breaks my heart , To think my Love and I must part . While I was sailing on the sea , I took all opportunity , To send letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne'r could hear . When we were booming of a town , Where cannonballs flew up and down , I'th' worst of all those dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your love she does defy . Said I , what mean you , Sir , by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another Wife . Cursed on all false love where-e'r it be , A curse on all such perjury ; A curse on those who [ ' ] r do make , Or break a vow for riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! Women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the pleasures of a Wife , Adieu all false-hearts here on shore , For I will ne'r see England more . I'll go where boombs and cannons play , Where they ne'r cease both night nor day , I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my heart's delight , I bid unto the World good night , I'd rather be where bullets fly , Than in a Woman's company . The young Woman's Answer . IN e'ry street I hear 'em sing My Love's complaint , who serv'd thee I went with him to the Boy i' th' Nore , And could have gone all the World o're . He says my love appeared true , I do declare it was so too ; And let his love be ne'r so great , Mine was as much , tho' unfortunate . A golden chain I had of him , Which I will freely return again ; As for my sighing when we did part , 'Twas from the bottom of my heart . Then both of us did straight agree , At his return married to be ; As for his letters he sent to Town , I do declare I ne'r had one . But now I find it ( tho' too late ) My Love complains of his hard fate , But 'tis my Father's fault indeed , He often said that you were dead . Those letters that you sent to me , My Father would not let me see ; But always said , Child be at rest , For thy Sweetheart was slave at Breast . Then he persuaded me to wed To a rich old Man that's almost dead ; It's true I'm married , and am a Wife , I wish I'd liv'd single all my life . I always lov'd a Seaman brave , And once I was in hope's to have Him which I now ne'r expect to see ; You Maidens all then pity me . While we are young and once in love , It looks like blessings from above ; Yet our Friends oftentimes will make Us break those vows for riches sake . And as for gold and silver too , I freely curse it as well as you ; For if that had not caus'd this strife , Then you and I had been Man and Wife . Although we both are crossed in love , Your resolution I'd have you move ; Since now you see the fault's not mine , Think not so hard on womankind . Where one Woman is false in love , A hundred Men they false do prove ; Tho' I lay not this charge to you , Nor I hope you don't think me untrue . Return , return , I beg my Dear , For here are thousand Women here , That are more beautiful than I , Therefore ne'r go where bullets fly . 'Twould be the comfort of my life , To see you have a happy Wife , Tho' I am crossed , 'twill ease my pain , To see you once return'd again . London : Printed for Charles Baker . The SEAMAN's COMPLAINT FOR HIS Unkind Mistress of Wapping : Together with The Young Woman's Answer in her own Vindication . To the Tune of , I love you dearly , I love you well , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order , etc WHen I went early in the spring , On board a ship to serve the King , I left my dearest Love behind , Who said her heart for e're was mine . Her Love appear'd most true to be , And she on board would go with me ; She went as far as the Boy i' th' Nore , And then return'd back to the shore . Ofttimes I hug'd her in my arms , I thought she had a thousand charms ; Our vows we bound with kisses sweet , To marry next time we did meet . A golden chain I did present , She seemed very well content ; She sigh'd , and said , It breaks my heart , To think my Love and I must part . While I was sailing on the sea , I took all opportunity , To send letters unto my Dear , But yet from her I ne'r could hear . When we were booming of a town , Where cannonballs flew up and down , I'th' worst of all those dangers there , My thoughts was still upon my Dear . But since we are returned home , My Love I went to wait upon , Who did in Wapping dwell of late , And now has made me unfortunate . For when I to her Father came , And ask'd for my Love by her name , Her Father churlishly did cry , Sir , all your love she does defy . Said I , what mean you , Sir , by this ? To tell you true , she wedded is To a rich old Man for all her life , And you may look for another Wife . Cursed on all false love where-e'r it be , A curse on all such perjury ; A curse on those who [ ' ] r do make , Or break a vow for riches sake . A curse on gold and silver too , A curse upon that Miser , who Has made his Daughter change her mind , Oh! Women's tongues are like the wind . Adieu all comfort of my life , Adieu the pleasures of a Wife , Adieu all false-hearts here on shore , For I will ne'r see England more . I'll go where boombs and cannons play , Where they ne'r cease both night nor day , I'll range the seas until I die , Where waves are tossing mountains high . Since I have lost my heart's delight , I bid unto the World good night , I'd rather be where bullets fly , Than in a Woman's company . The young Woman's Answer . IN e'ry street I hear 'em sing My Love's complaint , who serv'd thee I went with him to the Boy i' th' Nore , And could have gone all the World o're . He says my love appeared true , I do declare it was so too ; And let his love be ne'r so great , Mine was as much , tho' unfortunate . A golden chain I had of him , Which I will freely return again ; As for my sighing when we did part , 'Twas from the bottom of my heart . Then both of us did straight agree , At his return married to be ; As for his letters he sent to Town , I do declare I ne'r had one . But now I find it ( tho' too late ) My Love complains of his hard fate , But 'tis my Father's fault indeed , He often said that you were dead . Those letters that you sent to me , My Father would not let me see ; But always said , Child be at rest , For thy Sweetheart was slave at Breast . Then he persuaded me to wed To a rich old Man that's almost dead ; It's true I'm married , and am a Wife , I wish I'd liv'd single all my life . I always lov'd a Seaman brave , And once I was in hope's to have Him which I now ne'r expect to see ; You Maidens all then pity me . While we are young and once in love , It looks like blessings from above ; Yet our Friends oftentimes will make Us break those vows for riches sake . And as for gold and silver too , I freely curse it as well as you ; For if that had not caus'd this strife , Then you and I had been Man and Wife . Although we both are crossed in love , Your resolution I'd have you move ; Since now you see the fault's not mine , Think not so hard on womankind . Where one Woman is false in love , A hundred Men they false do prove ; Tho' I lay not this charge to you , Nor I hope you don't think me untrue . Return , return , I beg my Dear , For here are thousand Women here , That are more beautiful than I , Therefore ne'r go where bullets fly . 'Twould be the comfort of my life , To see you have a happy Wife , Tho' I am crossed , 'twill ease my pain , To see you once return'd again . London : Printed for Charles Baker . 