V A Loss so very great who can repeat S [ ? ] A Loss so very great who can repea He trod the Roman Yoke beneath his Feet . Justice was still his Glory , End , and Aim ; His Justice gain'd him Honour and great Fame ; Justice and Judgement did his Worth proclaim . He held Astrea's Scale in his Right Hand , Nor Friend nor Money could a Cause command : Just as the Gods he was , he favour'd none That cou'd not call a Righteous Cause his own . Knavish Attorneys he wou'd never spare , But valued all Proceedings that were fair . None was more zealous for Our Church and Cause ; Like Atlas , he upheld the Protestant Laws . Papists abhorr'd him , and the cause was plain , No Popish Tincture ever touch'd his Vein ; No Popish Doctrine lodg'd within his Brain . Death made great haste to prune his nimble Wings , That he might fly unto the King of kings . But while he's now the Subject of my Story , Methinks I see him shine with Rays of Glory : Yes , and I see th' Archbishop , his dear Brother , With their Celestial Arms hugging each other ; Transported with their Endless Joys above , They rest secur'd of their Redeemer's Love . In their Employments none could find a Flaw , One for Divinity , the other for Law ; Both Learned , Sober , Wise , Rich , and Renown'd ; Here priz'd and prais'd , Above with Glory crown'd . Like two great Lights they shined here below : Like Cedars in God's Lebanon they grow : Above the reach of Envious Tongues they stand , Held up by Power of and Almighty Hand . And like bright stars [ ? ] Which still about their Foreheads shall entwine . While their two Bodies in their Tombs shall lie , We leave their Souls to GOD to glorify . May their Blessed Heir be Rich in all that's good , Have all the Excellence of Coif and Hood , Uncle and Father's Treasures are his own ; So may their Goodness in his Life be shown . The EPITAPH . WHat though the Temple holds his sacred Dust ? The brightness of his Fame shall never rust . The Memory of the Just shall ever live ; What's due to Caesar we'll to Caesar give . Admit he humbly lies in dismal Grave , The Virtues of his Life , so just and brave , Exalt his Name above the spangl'd Skies , Where his Immortal Soul forever lies . Printed for Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall . V A Loss so very great who can repeat S [ ? ] A Loss so very great who can repea He trod the Roman Yoke beneath his Feet . Justice was still his Glory , End , and Aim ; His Justice gain'd him Honour and great Fame ; Justice and Judgement did his Worth proclaim . He held Astrea's Scale in his Right Hand , Nor Friend nor Money could a Cause command : Just as the Gods he was , he favour'd none That cou'd not call a Righteous Cause his own . Knavish Attorneys he wou'd never spare , But valued all Proceedings that were fair . None was more zealous for Our Church and Cause ; Like Atlas , he upheld the Protestant Laws . Papists abhorr'd him , and the cause was plain , No Popish Tincture ever touch'd his Vein ; No Popish Doctrine lodg'd within his Brain . Death made great haste to prune his nimble Wings , That he might fly unto the King of kings . But while he's now the Subject of my Story , Methinks I see him shine with Rays of Glory : Yes , and I see th' Archbishop , his dear Brother , With their Celestial Arms hugging each other ; Transported with their Endless Joys above , They rest secur'd of their Redeemer's Love . In their Employments none could find a Flaw , One for Divinity , the other for Law ; Both Learned , Sober , Wise , Rich , and Renown'd ; Here priz'd and prais'd , Above with Glory crown'd . Like two great Lights they shined here below : Like Cedars in God's Lebanon they grow : Above the reach of Envious Tongues they stand , Held up by Power of and Almighty Hand . And like bright stars [ ? ] Which still about their Foreheads shall entwine . While their two Bodies in their Tombs shall lie , We leave their Souls to GOD to glorify . May their Blessed Heir be Rich in all that's good , Have all the Excellence of Coif and Hood , Uncle and Father's Treasures are his own ; So may their Goodness in his Life be shown . The EPITAPH . WHat though the Temple holds his sacred Dust ? The brightness of his Fame shall never rust . The Memory of the Just shall ever live ; What's due to Caesar we'll to Caesar give . Admit he humbly lies in dismal Grave , The Virtues of his Life , so just and brave , Exalt his Name above the spangl'd Skies , Where his Immortal Soul forever lies . Printed for Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall . V A Loss so very great who can repeat S [ ? ] A Loss so very great who can repea He trod the Roman Yoke beneath his Feet . Justice was still his Glory , End , and Aim ; His Justice gain'd him Honour and great Fame ; Justice and Judgement did his Worth proclaim . He held Astrea's Scale in his Right Hand , Nor Friend nor Money could a Cause command : Just as the Gods he was , he favour'd none That cou'd not call a Righteous Cause his own . Knavish Attorneys he wou'd never spare , But valued all Proceedings that were fair . None was more zealous for Our Church and Cause ; Like Atlas , he upheld the Protestant Laws . Papists abhorr'd him , and the cause was plain , No Popish Tincture ever touch'd his Vein ; No Popish Doctrine lodg'd within his Brain . Death made great haste to prune his nimble Wings , That he might fly unto the King of kings . But while he's now the Subject of my Story , Methinks I see him shine with Rays of Glory : Yes , and I see th' Archbishop , his dear Brother , With their Celestial Arms hugging each other ; Transported with their Endless Joys above , They rest secur'd of their Redeemer's Love . In their Employments none could find a Flaw , One for Divinity , the other for Law ; Both Learned , Sober , Wise , Rich , and Renown'd ; Here priz'd and prais'd , Above with Glory crown'd . Like two great Lights they shined here below : Like Cedars in God's Lebanon they grow : Above the reach of Envious Tongues they stand , Held up by Power of and Almighty Hand . And like bright stars [ ? ] Which still about their Foreheads shall entwine . While their two Bodies in their Tombs shall lie , We leave their Souls to GOD to glorify . May their Blessed Heir be Rich in all that's good , Have all the Excellence of Coif and Hood , Uncle and Father's Treasures are his own ; So may their Goodness in his Life be shown . The EPITAPH . WHat though the Temple holds his sacred Dust ? The brightness of his Fame shall never rust . The Memory of the Just shall ever live ; What's due to Caesar we'll to Caesar give . Admit he humbly lies in dismal Grave , The Virtues of his Life , so just and brave , Exalt his Name above the spangl'd Skies , Where his Immortal Soul forever lies . Printed for Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall . V A Loss so very great who can repeat S [ ? ] A Loss so very great who can repea He trod the Roman Yoke beneath his Feet . Justice was still his Glory , End , and Aim ; His Justice gain'd him Honour and great Fame ; Justice and Judgement did his Worth proclaim . He held Astrea's Scale in his Right Hand , Nor Friend nor Money could a Cause command : Just as the Gods he was , he favour'd none That cou'd not call a Righteous Cause his own . Knavish Attorneys he wou'd never spare , But valued all Proceedings that were fair . None was more zealous for Our Church and Cause ; Like Atlas , he upheld the Protestant Laws . Papists abhorr'd him , and the cause was plain , No Popish Tincture ever touch'd his Vein ; No Popish Doctrine lodg'd within his Brain . Death made great haste to prune his nimble Wings , That he might fly unto the King of kings . But while he's now the Subject of my Story , Methinks I see him shine with Rays of Glory : Yes , and I see th' Archbishop , his dear Brother , With their Celestial Arms hugging each other ; Transported with their Endless Joys above , They rest secur'd of their Redeemer's Love . In their Employments none could find a Flaw , One for Divinity , the other for Law ; Both Learned , Sober , Wise , Rich , and Renown'd ; Here priz'd and prais'd , Above with Glory crown'd . Like two great Lights they shined here below : Like Cedars in God's Lebanon they grow : Above the reach of Envious Tongues they stand , Held up by Power of and Almighty Hand . And like bright stars [ ? ] Which still about their Foreheads shall entwine . While their two Bodies in their Tombs shall lie , We leave their Souls to GOD to glorify . May their Blessed Heir be Rich in all that's good , Have all the Excellence of Coif and Hood , Uncle and Father's Treasures are his own ; So may their Goodness in his Life be shown . The EPITAPH . WHat though the Temple holds his sacred Dust ? The brightness of his Fame shall never rust . The Memory of the Just shall ever live ; What's due to Caesar we'll to Caesar give . Admit he humbly lies in dismal Grave , The Virtues of his Life , so just and brave , Exalt his Name above the spangl'd Skies , Where his Immortal Soul forever lies . Printed for Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall . 