And Excellent New SONG , Called , The Politic Lady . Sung at the Play-House , in a New Play much in Request . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . WHen I have often herd Young Maids complaining , that when Men promise most , they most deceive , Then I thought none of them worthy my gaining , And what they swore I would never believe , But when so humbly one made his Addresses , With looks so soft , and with language so kind , I thought it since to refuse his Caresses , Nature o'er-came , and I soon chang'd my mind . II Should he employ all his Arts in deceiving , stretch his Invention , and quite crack his Brain , I find such Charms , such true Joys in believing , I'll have the Pleasure , let him have the Pain ; If he proves Perjur'd I shall not be cheated , he may deceive himself , but never me , 'Tis what I look for , and sha'n't be defeated . I'll be as false and unconstant as he . III . I know some Virgins that have been deceived , and , by false hearted Men , they were betray'd , When that they swore to love , Maids they believed , and of their Treachery were not afraid ; But too soon granted what Men did desire , tho' little dreaming they should be undone , For when they thought that they had 'em entire , soon , soon , alas ! the false Lover was gone . IV. Then they too late Lament at their undoing , for all their sighs and their tears are in vain , And those false hearted men that were their ruin , never , Oh! never will love them again , But to another they soon will retire , may be they find her at Park , or the Play , For still new Faces all Men do admire , such Perjur'd Lovers they are always . V. Should my Amintas prove once but false to me , Soon he should find me as fickle to be , For I'm resolved he ne'er shall undo me , I'll get another as handsome as he , Tho' I believe what he says when he's present , yet when he's absent , I think on't no more , While I live thus I do make my life pleasant , for if he leaves me there's others in store . VI . But if he's constant , I will be as loving , and will be true to no other but he , I am resolv'd I will never be Roving , if my Amintas will be true to me ; But I will ever for ever adore him , then , then my love shall be fixed so fast , For I did never love any before him , and , if he's faithful , he shall be the last . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven , near St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . And Excellent New SONG , Called , The Politic Lady . Sung at the Play-House , in a New Play much in Request . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . WHen I have often herd Young Maids complaining , that when Men promise most , they most deceive , Then I thought none of them worthy my gaining , And what they swore I would never believe , But when so humbly one made his Addresses , With looks so soft , and with language so kind , I thought it since to refuse his Caresses , Nature o'er-came , and I soon chang'd my mind . II Should he employ all his Arts in deceiving , stretch his Invention , and quite crack his Brain , I find such Charms , such true Joys in believing , I'll have the Pleasure , let him have the Pain ; If he proves Perjur'd I shall not be cheated , he may deceive himself , but never me , 'Tis what I look for , and sha'n't be defeated . I'll be as false and unconstant as he . III . I know some Virgins that have been deceived , and , by false hearted Men , they were betray'd , When that they swore to love , Maids they believed , and of their Treachery were not afraid ; But too soon granted what Men did desire , tho' little dreaming they should be undone , For when they thought that they had 'em entire , soon , soon , alas ! the false Lover was gone . IV. Then they too late Lament at their undoing , for all their sighs and their tears are in vain , And those false hearted men that were their ruin , never , Oh! never will love them again , But to another they soon will retire , may be they find her at Park , or the Play , For still new Faces all Men do admire , such Perjur'd Lovers they are always . V. Should my Amintas prove once but false to me , Soon he should find me as fickle to be , For I'm resolved he ne'er shall undo me , I'll get another as handsome as he , Tho' I believe what he says when he's present , yet when he's absent , I think on't no more , While I live thus I do make my life pleasant , for if he leaves me there's others in store . VI . But if he's constant , I will be as loving , and will be true to no other but he , I am resolv'd I will never be Roving , if my Amintas will be true to me ; But I will ever for ever adore him , then , then my love shall be fixed so fast , For I did never love any before him , and , if he's faithful , he shall be the last . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven , near St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . And Excellent New SONG , Called , The Politic Lady . Sung at the Play-House , in a New Play much in Request . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . WHen I have often herd Young Maids complaining , that when Men promise most , they most deceive , Then I thought none of them worthy my gaining , And what they swore I would never believe , But when so humbly one made his Addresses , With looks so soft , and with language so kind , I thought it since to refuse his Caresses , Nature o'er-came , and I soon chang'd my mind . II Should he employ all his Arts in deceiving , stretch his Invention , and quite crack his Brain , I find such Charms , such true Joys in believing , I'll have the Pleasure , let him have the Pain ; If he proves Perjur'd I shall not be cheated , he may deceive himself , but never me , 'Tis what I look for , and sha'n't be defeated . I'll be as false and unconstant as he . III . I know some Virgins that have been deceived , and , by false hearted Men , they were betray'd , When that they swore to love , Maids they believed , and of their Treachery were not afraid ; But too soon granted what Men did desire , tho' little dreaming they should be undone , For when they thought that they had 'em entire , soon , soon , alas ! the false Lover was gone . IV. Then they too late Lament at their undoing , for all their sighs and their tears are in vain , And those false hearted men that were their ruin , never , Oh! never will love them again , But to another they soon will retire , may be they find her at Park , or the Play , For still new Faces all Men do admire , such Perjur'd Lovers they are always . V. Should my Amintas prove once but false to me , Soon he should find me as fickle to be , For I'm resolved he ne'er shall undo me , I'll get another as handsome as he , Tho' I believe what he says when he's present , yet when he's absent , I think on't no more , While I live thus I do make my life pleasant , for if he leaves me there's others in store . VI . But if he's constant , I will be as loving , and will be true to no other but he , I am resolv'd I will never be Roving , if my Amintas will be true to me ; But I will ever for ever adore him , then , then my love shall be fixed so fast , For I did never love any before him , and , if he's faithful , he shall be the last . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven , near St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . And Excellent New SONG , Called , The Politic Lady . Sung at the Play-House , in a New Play much in Request . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . WHen I have often herd Young Maids complaining , that when Men promise most , they most deceive , Then I thought none of them worthy my gaining , And what they swore I would never believe , But when so humbly one made his Addresses , With looks so soft , and with language so kind , I thought it since to refuse his Caresses , Nature o'er-came , and I soon chang'd my mind . II Should he employ all his Arts in deceiving , stretch his Invention , and quite crack his Brain , I find such Charms , such true Joys in believing , I'll have the Pleasure , let him have the Pain ; If he proves Perjur'd I shall not be cheated , he may deceive himself , but never me , 'Tis what I look for , and sha'n't be defeated . I'll be as false and unconstant as he . III . I know some Virgins that have been deceived , and , by false hearted Men , they were betray'd , When that they swore to love , Maids they believed , and of their Treachery were not afraid ; But too soon granted what Men did desire , tho' little dreaming they should be undone , For when they thought that they had 'em entire , soon , soon , alas ! the false Lover was gone . IV. Then they too late Lament at their undoing , for all their sighs and their tears are in vain , And those false hearted men that were their ruin , never , Oh! never will love them again , But to another they soon will retire , may be they find her at Park , or the Play , For still new Faces all Men do admire , such Perjur'd Lovers they are always . V. Should my Amintas prove once but false to me , Soon he should find me as fickle to be , For I'm resolved he ne'er shall undo me , I'll get another as handsome as he , Tho' I believe what he says when he's present , yet when he's absent , I think on't no more , While I live thus I do make my life pleasant , for if he leaves me there's others in store . VI . But if he's constant , I will be as loving , and will be true to no other but he , I am resolv'd I will never be Roving , if my Amintas will be true to me ; But I will ever for ever adore him , then , then my love shall be fixed so fast , For I did never love any before him , and , if he's faithful , he shall be the last . FINIS . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven , near St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . 