WHen Brewers and Bakers , 1. WHen Brewers and Bakers , And such Undertakers , Did settle the Church and the State ; A fine Reformation Was made in the Nation , And little Things then became great . 2. A Rake-Helly Brewer , A Rogue I am sure , A Subtle one , when but a Boy ; Yet that Politician Did get a Commission , The King and his Friends to destroy . 3. Which Thing he effected , And then was Elected By a People that call themselves Free , To be their Protector ; Oh! then he did Hector , And was called his Highness O.P. 4. Those Times they were sad ; But not half so bad In that , as in this Usurpation : Much Treasure was spent , But none of it sent To Holland , to beggar the Nation . 5. For in Oliver's Days , To his mighty Praise , The Fleet and the Army were pay'd ; Our Merchant's preserv'd , And no Man was starv'd , Or perish'd for want of a Trade . 6. But now in the Street , What Objects we meet Of Tradesmen , who beg for Relief ; While the Dutch at White Hall , From the English take all , By command of P.O. the Grand Thief . 7. Who his Father did rob , And the Nation did bob , And Swears by his Power and Might , That he is a Widgeon That matters Religion , Since Strength and Success gives a Right . 8. And for the dull English , He'll make 'em distinguish Between the long Robe and the Sword ; And as he sees cause , He'll damn all the Laws , And govern by that of his Word . 9. By which we may see His Highness O.P. Was and Ass to his Highness P.O. For the brave Cavileer Sometime he would spare , But the Jacobites all to Pot go . 10. So 'tis very plain , This damn'd cursed Reign Of the two is far the worst Evil , For Nose and the Dutch Will ruin all such That won't fell their Souls to the Devil . 11. If the House of Commons Had Souls like the Roman , Or Courage like Brave Sir John K -- tO , In spite of Dutch Boors They'd kick out of Doors The Usurper , and do the King right . 12. But the blessed Convention Is brib'd by a Pension , So nothing from them we can hope ; Till Home Heaven does bring Our much injur'd King , Then all they can claim is a Rope . 13. And now I do think , 'Tis time for to drink A Bumper , don't think it too much Man ; 'Tis the Restoration , And Peace to the Nation , Confusion likewise to the Dutchman . FINIS . London , Printed in the Year , 1694. WHen Brewers and Bakers , 1. WHen Brewers and Bakers , And such Undertakers , Did settle the Church and the State ; A fine Reformation Was made in the Nation , And little Things then became great . 2. A Rake-Helly Brewer , A Rogue I am sure , A Subtle one , when but a Boy ; Yet that Politician Did get a Commission , The King and his Friends to destroy . 3. Which Thing he effected , And then was Elected By a People that call themselves Free , To be their Protector ; Oh! then he did Hector , And was called his Highness O.P. 4. Those Times they were sad ; But not half so bad In that , as in this Usurpation : Much Treasure was spent , But none of it sent To Holland , to beggar the Nation . 5. For in Oliver's Days , To his mighty Praise , The Fleet and the Army were pay'd ; Our Merchant's preserv'd , And no Man was starv'd , Or perish'd for want of a Trade . 6. But now in the Street , What Objects we meet Of Tradesmen , who beg for Relief ; While the Dutch at White Hall , From the English take all , By command of P.O. the Grand Thief . 7. Who his Father did rob , And the Nation did bob , And Swears by his Power and Might , That he is a Widgeon That matters Religion , Since Strength and Success gives a Right . 8. And for the dull English , He'll make 'em distinguish Between the long Robe and the Sword ; And as he sees cause , He'll damn all the Laws , And govern by that of his Word . 9. By which we may see His Highness O.P. Was and Ass to his Highness P.O. For the brave Cavileer Sometime he would spare , But the Jacobites all to Pot go . 10. So 'tis very plain , This damn'd cursed Reign Of the two is far the worst Evil , For Nose and the Dutch Will ruin all such That won't fell their Souls to the Devil . 11. If the House of Commons Had Souls like the Roman , Or Courage like Brave Sir John K -- tO , In spite of Dutch Boors They'd kick out of Doors The Usurper , and do the King right . 12. But the blessed Convention Is brib'd by a Pension , So nothing from them we can hope ; Till Home Heaven does bring Our much injur'd King , Then all they can claim is a Rope . 13. And now I do think , 'Tis time for to drink A Bumper , don't think it too much Man ; 'Tis the Restoration , And Peace to the Nation , Confusion likewise to the Dutchman . FINIS . London , Printed in the Year , 1694. 