C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 1 ) The battle of Bodwell-bridge , OR , The KINGS CAVILEERS TRIUMPH . To be sung with a pleasant New Tune . Harken and take head , I will tell you a thing , How that the Whigs soldiers all did convene ; From Irwin to Air , to Glasgow they came , And marched like men in good order ; They marched throw Glasgow with pipe & with drum The gallant brave Soldiers they keeped their ground Thinking the Kings Cavileers for to Gainstand , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . They marched by day , so did they by night , And their Master Welsh , he led them full right , Of the Bodwell-Bridge they god a full sighed , And planted their tents on the border . On Sunday at morn when Phebus did rise , The Whigs thought the Cavileers for to surprise , But ere they wist well they wakened them thrice , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . That false Rebel Welsh , a Chiftan not good , Where into his cause there was spilled miekle blood , But yet the Kings Caveleers lited their weed , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . They came to the Bridge without a gainstand , Our noble Kings-Reed Coats lay ready at hand ; Their false Chiftan left them to flee or to stand , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . There was the Duke-Monmoth and Generall-Deyell , With Canons and Muskets the Whigs for to fell , The silly poor Whigs god many a knell , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . The Second Part , To the same Tune . To the Bodwell Bridge , these Conventicles yed , Our noble Kings Caveleers came with good speed , They hew'd down the Whigs-men , and spilled miekle blood , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . And when the Whigs Cannons began for to style , They thought the brim battle to win by a wile , But ere they wist well , they god a beguile , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . Our noble good Chiftan brave General Deyell , Commanded his men on their faces to fallen . The Reed-Coats escaped the Whigs Cannonball , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The stout English Caveleers of great renown , They styled their Cannons the Whigs to ding down , The silly poor Whigs god many a wound , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . Their was not a man slave on our side at all , But only two men with the Whigs Cannonball , And for these two men two thousand did fallen , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The good Earl of Ligthgow , and brave Earl of Marr Themselves & their Regiments like brave men of war They dang down the Whigs-men & gave them a char From the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The good Earl of Athol and gallant Montrose , They pull'd the Whigs-Piriweegs over their nose , Their Captains and Chiftans did sleep in their hose , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . The good Captan Clavers , with his good Draguns , He scattered the Whigs through the south Country bounds , He gave them many soar deadly wounds , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . And when the Whigs sojors began for to flee , The good Captain Clavers after them would be , And no man with him but his own Company ; When they ran from the Battle of Bodwell . But the good Duke Monmoth would not let them gang , For fear that the Whigs had done them much wrong , The Whigs they were scattered through all the land , When they ran from the Battle of Bodwell . The good Earl of Marischall both valiant & keen He gathered his Regement at New Aberdeen , But ere he wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell , The good Earl of Aboyne , without all delay , He gathered his Regiments and so went away , With all his brave Trowpers in Battle array , For to fight at the Battle of Bodwell . A gallant Horss-Randevouze their did convene , Of Nobles and Gentles at New-Aberdeen ; But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The stout Earl of Erroll of good great renown , He drew up his Regement at Aberdeen's Town But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The good Laird of Grant , with his brave men of wear Like gallant brave Trowpers well dressed in their gear They went to the Whigs without any fear , For to fight at the Battle of Bodwell . They marched throw Brichen with loud trumpet found Like gallant brave Troupers they keeped their ground But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . Both he and Lord Duffus came in by Whyte-stane , Lord Duffus had footmen both valiant and keen ; But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . Of all these good Chiftans I'l now make and end , Hoping all good Christians not to offend , I wish never such fighting be seen in this land , As was the brim Battle of Bodwell . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 1 ) The battle of Bodwell-bridge , OR , The KINGS CAVILEERS TRIUMPH . To be sung with a pleasant New Tune . Harken and take head , I will tell you a thing , How that the Whigs soldiers all did convene ; From Irwin to Air , to Glasgow they came , And marched like men in good order ; They marched throw Glasgow with pipe & with drum The gallant brave Soldiers they keeped their ground Thinking the Kings Cavileers for to Gainstand , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . They marched by day , so did they by night , And their Master Welsh , he led them full right , Of the Bodwell-Bridge they god a full sighed , And planted their tents on the border . On Sunday at morn when Phebus did rise , The Whigs thought the Cavileers for to surprise , But ere they wist well they wakened them thrice , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . That false Rebel Welsh , a Chiftan not good , Where into his cause there was spilled miekle blood , But yet the Kings Caveleers lited their weed , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . They came to the Bridge without a gainstand , Our noble Kings-Reed Coats lay ready at hand ; Their false Chiftan left them to flee or to stand , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . There was the Duke-Monmoth and Generall-Deyell , With Canons and Muskets the Whigs for to fell , The silly poor Whigs god many a knell , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . The Second Part , To the same Tune . To the Bodwell Bridge , these Conventicles yed , Our noble Kings Caveleers came with good speed , They hew'd down the Whigs-men , and spilled miekle blood , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . And when the Whigs Cannons began for to style , They thought the brim battle to win by a wile , But ere they wist well , they god a beguile , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . Our noble good Chiftan brave General Deyell , Commanded his men on their faces to fallen . The Reed-Coats escaped the Whigs Cannonball , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The stout English Caveleers of great renown , They styled their Cannons the Whigs to ding down , The silly poor Whigs god many a wound , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . Their was not a man slave on our side at all , But only two men with the Whigs Cannonball , And for these two men two thousand did fallen , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The good Earl of Ligthgow , and brave Earl of Marr Themselves & their Regiments like brave men of war They dang down the Whigs-men & gave them a char From the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The good Earl of Athol and gallant Montrose , They pull'd the Whigs-Piriweegs over their nose , Their Captains and Chiftans did sleep in their hose , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . The good Captan Clavers , with his good Draguns , He scattered the Whigs through the south Country bounds , He gave them many soar deadly wounds , When they came to the Battle of Bodwell . And when the Whigs sojors began for to flee , The good Captain Clavers after them would be , And no man with him but his own Company ; When they ran from the Battle of Bodwell . But the good Duke Monmoth would not let them gang , For fear that the Whigs had done them much wrong , The Whigs they were scattered through all the land , When they ran from the Battle of Bodwell . The good Earl of Marischall both valiant & keen He gathered his Regement at New Aberdeen , But ere he wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell , The good Earl of Aboyne , without all delay , He gathered his Regiments and so went away , With all his brave Trowpers in Battle array , For to fight at the Battle of Bodwell . A gallant Horss-Randevouze their did convene , Of Nobles and Gentles at New-Aberdeen ; But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The stout Earl of Erroll of good great renown , He drew up his Regement at Aberdeen's Town But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . The good Laird of Grant , with his brave men of wear Like gallant brave Trowpers well dressed in their gear They went to the Whigs without any fear , For to fight at the Battle of Bodwell . They marched throw Brichen with loud trumpet found Like gallant brave Troupers they keeped their ground But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . Both he and Lord Duffus came in by Whyte-stane , Lord Duffus had footmen both valiant and keen ; But ere they wist well the fighting was done , At the place of the Battle of Bodwell . Of all these good Chiftans I'l now make and end , Hoping all good Christians not to offend , I wish never such fighting be seen in this land , As was the brim Battle of Bodwell . FINIS . 