MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Lately found in a Manuscript in Pontefract-Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . --- 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread : The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . --- 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again . MDCLXVI . --- 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn The City , and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . --- 1680. Ere time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange . Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , Its Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd-Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , while others sing : In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree . The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod . Then from these three there shall arise A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down to the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . --- 1682. Ere to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend . A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again . The Flower-de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half-Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to your selves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . FINIS . MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Lately found in a Manuscript in Pontefract-Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . --- 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread : The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . --- 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again . MDCLXVI . --- 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn The City , and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . --- 1680. Ere time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange . Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , Its Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd-Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , while others sing : In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree . The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod . Then from these three there shall arise A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down to the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . --- 1682. Ere to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend . A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again . The Flower-de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half-Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to your selves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . FINIS . MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Lately found in a Manuscript in Pontefract-Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . --- 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread : The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . --- 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again . MDCLXVI . --- 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn The City , and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . --- 1680. Ere time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange . Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , Its Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd-Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , while others sing : In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree . The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod . Then from these three there shall arise A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down to the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . --- 1682. Ere to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend . A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again . The Flower-de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half-Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to your selves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . FINIS . MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Lately found in a Manuscript in Pontefract-Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . --- 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread : The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . --- 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again . MDCLXVI . --- 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn The City , and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . --- 1680. Ere time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange . Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , Its Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd-Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , while others sing : In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree . The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod . Then from these three there shall arise A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down to the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . --- 1682. Ere to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend . A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again . The Flower-de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half-Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to your selves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . FINIS . 