Robin Hood his Rescuing Will . Stutly from the Sheriff and his Men , who had taken him Prisoner , and was going to Hang him . To the Tune of , Robin Hood , and Queen Katherine . WHen Robin Hood in the green Wood stood ; derry , derry , down , Under the greenwood Tree , Tidings there came to him with speed , Tidings for certainty : heigh down , derry derry , down . That Will . Stutly surprised was , And eke in Prison lay , Three Varlets that the King had hir'd , Did likely him betray . Ay and tomorrow hang'd must be , Tomorrow as soon as 'tis day ; But before they could this victory get , Two of them did Stutly slay . When Robin Hood he herd this news , Lord he was grieved soar , Ay and to his merry men he said , Who altogether swore . That Will . Stutly should rescued be , And be brought back again , Or else should many a gallant wight , For his sake there be slave . He clothed himself in Scarlet then , His men were all in Green , A fairer show throughout the world , In no place could be seen Good lord it was a gallant sighed , To see them all on a row , With every man a good broad Sword , And eke a good Yew Bow. Forth of the green wood they are gone , Yea all courageously , Resolving to bring Stutly home , Or every man to die . And when they came the Castle near , Whereas Will . Stutly lay , I hold it good , said Robin Hood , We here in ambush stay . And send one forth some news to hear , To yonder Palmer fair , that stands under the Castle wall , Some News he may declare . With that steps forth a brave young man , Which was of courage bold , thus he did say to the Old man , I pray thee Palmer old , Tell me if that thou rightly ken , derry , derry , down , When must Will . Stutly die ? Who is one of Bold Robins Men , And here does Prisoner lie : heigh down , derry , derry , down . ALas ! alas ! the Palmer said , derry , derry , down , And for ever woe is me , Will Stutly hang'd must be today , On yonder Gallows tree , heigh down , derry derry down . O had his Noble Master known , He would some succour send , A few of his bold Yeomandre , Full soon would fetch him hence . I that is true the young man said , I that is true said he , Or if they were near to this place , They soon would set him free . But fare thou well thou good Old man , Farewell , and thanks to thee , If Stutly hanged be this day , Reveng'd his death will be . He was no sooner from the Palmer gone , But the Gates was opened wide , And out of the Castle Will Stutly came , Guarded on every side . When he was forth of the Castle come , And saw no help was nigh , Thus he did say unto the Sheriff , Thus he said gallantly . Now seeing that I needs must die , Grant me one boon said he , For my Noble Master ne'er had Man , That yet was hang'd on tree . Give me a Sword all in my hand , And let me be unbound , And with thee and thy men i'll fight , Until I lie dead on the ground . But this desire he would not grant , His wishes were in vain , For the Sheriff had sworn he hang'd should be , And not by the Sword be slave . Do but unbind my hands he says , I will no weapons crave , And if I hanged be this day , Damnation let me have . O no , no , the Sheriff he said , Thou shalt on the Gallows die , I and so shall thy master too , If ever in me it lie . O dastard Coward Stutly cries , Thou fainthearted peasant slave , If ever my Master do thee meet , Thou shalt thy payment have . My Noble master thee does scorn , And all thy Cowardly Crew , Such silly Imps unable are Bold Robin to subdue . But when he was to the Gallows come , And ready to bid adieu , Out of a bush steps little John , And steps Will Stutly too . I pray thee Will before thou die , Of thy dear friends take leave , I needs must borrow him a while , How say you master Sheriff . Now as I live , the Sheriff said . that varlet will I know , Some sturdy Rebel is that same , therefore let him not go . With that little John so hastily , Away Cut Stutly's bans , And from one of the Sheriffs men , A Sword twicht from his hands . Here Will take thou this same , thou canst it better sway , And here defend thy self a while , For Aid will come straightway . And there they turn [ ' ] worser them back to back , In the middle of them that day , till Robin Hood approached near , With many and Archer gay . With that and Arrow by them slew , I wist from Robin Hood , Make haste , make haste , the Sheriff he said , Make haste for it is good . the Sheriff is gone , his bootless men , thought it no boot to slay , But as their master had them taught . they run full fast away . O stay , Oh stay , Will Stutly said , take leave e'er you depart . You ne'er will catch bold Robin Hood , unless you dare him meet . O ill betide you , said Robin Hood , that you so soon are gone , My Sword may in the Scabbard rest , For here our work is done . I little thought when I came here , When I came here to this place , For to have met with little John , Or seen my Master's face . Thus Stutly was at liberty set , And safe brought from his Foe , Oh thanks , Oh thanks , to my Master , Since here it was not so , And once again my Fellows dear , derry , derry , down , We shall in the green woods meet , where we will make our bowstrings twang Music for us most sweet . heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . Robin Hood his Rescuing Will . Stutly from the Sheriff and his Men , who had taken him Prisoner , and was going to Hang him . To the Tune of , Robin Hood , and Queen Katherine . WHen Robin Hood in the green Wood stood ; derry , derry , down , Under the greenwood Tree , Tidings there came to him with speed , Tidings for certainty : heigh down , derry derry , down . That Will . Stutly surprised was , And eke in Prison lay , Three Varlets that the King had hir'd , Did likely him betray . Ay and tomorrow hang'd must be , Tomorrow as soon as 'tis day ; But before they could this victory get , Two of them did Stutly slay . When Robin Hood he herd this news , Lord he was grieved soar , Ay and to his merry men he said , Who altogether swore . That Will . Stutly should rescued be , And be brought back again , Or else should many a gallant wight , For his sake there be slave . He clothed himself in Scarlet then , His men were all in Green , A fairer show throughout the world , In no place could be seen Good lord it was a gallant sighed , To see them all on a row , With every man a good broad Sword , And eke a good Yew Bow. Forth of the green wood they are gone , Yea all courageously , Resolving to bring Stutly home , Or every man to die . And when they came the Castle near , Whereas Will . Stutly lay , I hold it good , said Robin Hood , We here in ambush stay . And send one forth some news to hear , To yonder Palmer fair , that stands under the Castle wall , Some News he may declare . With that steps forth a brave young man , Which was of courage bold , thus he did say to the Old man , I pray thee Palmer old , Tell me if that thou rightly ken , derry , derry , down , When must Will . Stutly die ? Who is one of Bold Robins Men , And here does Prisoner lie : heigh down , derry , derry , down . ALas ! alas ! the Palmer said , derry , derry , down , And for ever woe is me , Will Stutly hang'd must be today , On yonder Gallows tree , heigh down , derry derry down . O had his Noble Master known , He would some succour send , A few of his bold Yeomandre , Full soon would fetch him hence . I that is true the young man said , I that is true said he , Or if they were near to this place , They soon would set him free . But fare thou well thou good Old man , Farewell , and thanks to thee , If Stutly hanged be this day , Reveng'd his death will be . He was no sooner from the Palmer gone , But the Gates was opened wide , And out of the Castle Will Stutly came , Guarded on every side . When he was forth of the Castle come , And saw no help was nigh , Thus he did say unto the Sheriff , Thus he said gallantly . Now seeing that I needs must die , Grant me one boon said he , For my Noble Master ne'er had Man , That yet was hang'd on tree . Give me a Sword all in my hand , And let me be unbound , And with thee and thy men i'll fight , Until I lie dead on the ground . But this desire he would not grant , His wishes were in vain , For the Sheriff had sworn he hang'd should be , And not by the Sword be slave . Do but unbind my hands he says , I will no weapons crave , And if I hanged be this day , Damnation let me have . O no , no , the Sheriff he said , Thou shalt on the Gallows die , I and so shall thy master too , If ever in me it lie . O dastard Coward Stutly cries , Thou fainthearted peasant slave , If ever my Master do thee meet , Thou shalt thy payment have . My Noble master thee does scorn , And all thy Cowardly Crew , Such silly Imps unable are Bold Robin to subdue . But when he was to the Gallows come , And ready to bid adieu , Out of a bush steps little John , And steps Will Stutly too . I pray thee Will before thou die , Of thy dear friends take leave , I needs must borrow him a while , How say you master Sheriff . Now as I live , the Sheriff said . that varlet will I know , Some sturdy Rebel is that same , therefore let him not go . With that little John so hastily , Away Cut Stutly's bans , And from one of the Sheriffs men , A Sword twicht from his hands . Here Will take thou this same , thou canst it better sway , And here defend thy self a while , For Aid will come straightway . And there they turn [ ' ] worser them back to back , In the middle of them that day , till Robin Hood approached near , With many and Archer gay . With that and Arrow by them slew , I wist from Robin Hood , Make haste , make haste , the Sheriff he said , Make haste for it is good . the Sheriff is gone , his bootless men , thought it no boot to slay , But as their master had them taught . they run full fast away . O stay , Oh stay , Will Stutly said , take leave e'er you depart . You ne'er will catch bold Robin Hood , unless you dare him meet . O ill betide you , said Robin Hood , that you so soon are gone , My Sword may in the Scabbard rest , For here our work is done . I little thought when I came here , When I came here to this place , For to have met with little John , Or seen my Master's face . Thus Stutly was at liberty set , And safe brought from his Foe , Oh thanks , Oh thanks , to my Master , Since here it was not so , And once again my Fellows dear , derry , derry , down , We shall in the green woods meet , where we will make our bowstrings twang Music for us most sweet . heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . Robin Hood his Rescuing Will . Stutly from the Sheriff and his Men , who had taken him Prisoner , and was going to Hang him . To the Tune of , Robin Hood , and Queen Katherine . WHen Robin Hood in the green Wood stood ; derry , derry , down , Under the greenwood Tree , Tidings there came to him with speed , Tidings for certainty : heigh down , derry derry , down . That Will . Stutly surprised was , And eke in Prison lay , Three Varlets that the King had hir'd , Did likely him betray . Ay and tomorrow hang'd must be , Tomorrow as soon as 'tis day ; But before they could this victory get , Two of them did Stutly slay . When Robin Hood he herd this news , Lord he was grieved soar , Ay and to his merry men he said , Who altogether swore . That Will . Stutly should rescued be , And be brought back again , Or else should many a gallant wight , For his sake there be slave . He clothed himself in Scarlet then , His men were all in Green , A fairer show throughout the world , In no place could be seen Good lord it was a gallant sighed , To see them all on a row , With every man a good broad Sword , And eke a good Yew Bow. Forth of the green wood they are gone , Yea all courageously , Resolving to bring Stutly home , Or every man to die . And when they came the Castle near , Whereas Will . Stutly lay , I hold it good , said Robin Hood , We here in ambush stay . And send one forth some news to hear , To yonder Palmer fair , that stands under the Castle wall , Some News he may declare . With that steps forth a brave young man , Which was of courage bold , thus he did say to the Old man , I pray thee Palmer old , Tell me if that thou rightly ken , derry , derry , down , When must Will . Stutly die ? Who is one of Bold Robins Men , And here does Prisoner lie : heigh down , derry , derry , down . ALas ! alas ! the Palmer said , derry , derry , down , And for ever woe is me , Will Stutly hang'd must be today , On yonder Gallows tree , heigh down , derry derry down . O had his Noble Master known , He would some succour send , A few of his bold Yeomandre , Full soon would fetch him hence . I that is true the young man said , I that is true said he , Or if they were near to this place , They soon would set him free . But fare thou well thou good Old man , Farewell , and thanks to thee , If Stutly hanged be this day , Reveng'd his death will be . He was no sooner from the Palmer gone , But the Gates was opened wide , And out of the Castle Will Stutly came , Guarded on every side . When he was forth of the Castle come , And saw no help was nigh , Thus he did say unto the Sheriff , Thus he said gallantly . Now seeing that I needs must die , Grant me one boon said he , For my Noble Master ne'er had Man , That yet was hang'd on tree . Give me a Sword all in my hand , And let me be unbound , And with thee and thy men i'll fight , Until I lie dead on the ground . But this desire he would not grant , His wishes were in vain , For the Sheriff had sworn he hang'd should be , And not by the Sword be slave . Do but unbind my hands he says , I will no weapons crave , And if I hanged be this day , Damnation let me have . O no , no , the Sheriff he said , Thou shalt on the Gallows die , I and so shall thy master too , If ever in me it lie . O dastard Coward Stutly cries , Thou fainthearted peasant slave , If ever my Master do thee meet , Thou shalt thy payment have . My Noble master thee does scorn , And all thy Cowardly Crew , Such silly Imps unable are Bold Robin to subdue . But when he was to the Gallows come , And ready to bid adieu , Out of a bush steps little John , And steps Will Stutly too . I pray thee Will before thou die , Of thy dear friends take leave , I needs must borrow him a while , How say you master Sheriff . Now as I live , the Sheriff said . that varlet will I know , Some sturdy Rebel is that same , therefore let him not go . With that little John so hastily , Away Cut Stutly's bans , And from one of the Sheriffs men , A Sword twicht from his hands . Here Will take thou this same , thou canst it better sway , And here defend thy self a while , For Aid will come straightway . And there they turn [ ' ] worser them back to back , In the middle of them that day , till Robin Hood approached near , With many and Archer gay . With that and Arrow by them slew , I wist from Robin Hood , Make haste , make haste , the Sheriff he said , Make haste for it is good . the Sheriff is gone , his bootless men , thought it no boot to slay , But as their master had them taught . they run full fast away . O stay , Oh stay , Will Stutly said , take leave e'er you depart . You ne'er will catch bold Robin Hood , unless you dare him meet . O ill betide you , said Robin Hood , that you so soon are gone , My Sword may in the Scabbard rest , For here our work is done . I little thought when I came here , When I came here to this place , For to have met with little John , Or seen my Master's face . Thus Stutly was at liberty set , And safe brought from his Foe , Oh thanks , Oh thanks , to my Master , Since here it was not so , And once again my Fellows dear , derry , derry , down , We shall in the green woods meet , where we will make our bowstrings twang Music for us most sweet . heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . Robin Hood his Rescuing Will . Stutly from the Sheriff and his Men , who had taken him Prisoner , and was going to Hang him . To the Tune of , Robin Hood , and Queen Katherine . WHen Robin Hood in the green Wood stood ; derry , derry , down , Under the greenwood Tree , Tidings there came to him with speed , Tidings for certainty : heigh down , derry derry , down . That Will . Stutly surprised was , And eke in Prison lay , Three Varlets that the King had hir'd , Did likely him betray . Ay and tomorrow hang'd must be , Tomorrow as soon as 'tis day ; But before they could this victory get , Two of them did Stutly slay . When Robin Hood he herd this news , Lord he was grieved soar , Ay and to his merry men he said , Who altogether swore . That Will . Stutly should rescued be , And be brought back again , Or else should many a gallant wight , For his sake there be slave . He clothed himself in Scarlet then , His men were all in Green , A fairer show throughout the world , In no place could be seen Good lord it was a gallant sighed , To see them all on a row , With every man a good broad Sword , And eke a good Yew Bow. Forth of the green wood they are gone , Yea all courageously , Resolving to bring Stutly home , Or every man to die . And when they came the Castle near , Whereas Will . Stutly lay , I hold it good , said Robin Hood , We here in ambush stay . And send one forth some news to hear , To yonder Palmer fair , that stands under the Castle wall , Some News he may declare . With that steps forth a brave young man , Which was of courage bold , thus he did say to the Old man , I pray thee Palmer old , Tell me if that thou rightly ken , derry , derry , down , When must Will . Stutly die ? Who is one of Bold Robins Men , And here does Prisoner lie : heigh down , derry , derry , down . ALas ! alas ! the Palmer said , derry , derry , down , And for ever woe is me , Will Stutly hang'd must be today , On yonder Gallows tree , heigh down , derry derry down . O had his Noble Master known , He would some succour send , A few of his bold Yeomandre , Full soon would fetch him hence . I that is true the young man said , I that is true said he , Or if they were near to this place , They soon would set him free . But fare thou well thou good Old man , Farewell , and thanks to thee , If Stutly hanged be this day , Reveng'd his death will be . He was no sooner from the Palmer gone , But the Gates was opened wide , And out of the Castle Will Stutly came , Guarded on every side . When he was forth of the Castle come , And saw no help was nigh , Thus he did say unto the Sheriff , Thus he said gallantly . Now seeing that I needs must die , Grant me one boon said he , For my Noble Master ne'er had Man , That yet was hang'd on tree . Give me a Sword all in my hand , And let me be unbound , And with thee and thy men i'll fight , Until I lie dead on the ground . But this desire he would not grant , His wishes were in vain , For the Sheriff had sworn he hang'd should be , And not by the Sword be slave . Do but unbind my hands he says , I will no weapons crave , And if I hanged be this day , Damnation let me have . O no , no , the Sheriff he said , Thou shalt on the Gallows die , I and so shall thy master too , If ever in me it lie . O dastard Coward Stutly cries , Thou fainthearted peasant slave , If ever my Master do thee meet , Thou shalt thy payment have . My Noble master thee does scorn , And all thy Cowardly Crew , Such silly Imps unable are Bold Robin to subdue . But when he was to the Gallows come , And ready to bid adieu , Out of a bush steps little John , And steps Will Stutly too . I pray thee Will before thou die , Of thy dear friends take leave , I needs must borrow him a while , How say you master Sheriff . Now as I live , the Sheriff said . that varlet will I know , Some sturdy Rebel is that same , therefore let him not go . With that little John so hastily , Away Cut Stutly's bans , And from one of the Sheriffs men , A Sword twicht from his hands . Here Will take thou this same , thou canst it better sway , And here defend thy self a while , For Aid will come straightway . And there they turn [ ' ] worser them back to back , In the middle of them that day , till Robin Hood approached near , With many and Archer gay . With that and Arrow by them slew , I wist from Robin Hood , Make haste , make haste , the Sheriff he said , Make haste for it is good . the Sheriff is gone , his bootless men , thought it no boot to slay , But as their master had them taught . they run full fast away . O stay , Oh stay , Will Stutly said , take leave e'er you depart . You ne'er will catch bold Robin Hood , unless you dare him meet . O ill betide you , said Robin Hood , that you so soon are gone , My Sword may in the Scabbard rest , For here our work is done . I little thought when I came here , When I came here to this place , For to have met with little John , Or seen my Master's face . Thus Stutly was at liberty set , And safe brought from his Foe , Oh thanks , Oh thanks , to my Master , Since here it was not so , And once again my Fellows dear , derry , derry , down , We shall in the green woods meet , where we will make our bowstrings twang Music for us most sweet . heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 