THE Trappand Cuckold-maker . OR , Yea - and - Nay well fitted . A Baker went with full intent , a Beauty to adore ; Thus Yea and Nay , did run astray , But he'll do so no more . Tune is , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. THere was of late a Cuckold-maker . if you will believe the truth ; Yea and nay , he was a Quaker , yet he us'd the tricks of youth . On a day it chanced so , He would to his Neighbour go , When her Husband want within , This discourse he did begin , Saying , if thou wilt me obey , I'le tender thee by yea and nay . Love let me have my Hearts desire , wherefore shouldst thou say me nay ; Beauty sets my Heart on fire , little Lambs thou knowest will play : Since I have my love reveal'd , Prithee dearest doe but yield , I will be a constant friend , When I cannot come I'le send Thee many presents , day by day , And love thee too by yea and nay . The Woman then with modest blushes , in a passion she revil'd ; But the Quaker often Hushes her , to be more kind and mild : Thus he whisp [ e ] rs in her Ear , Tush , said he , thou needest not fear , Any manner of disgrace , We may freely here embrace : Then prithee make no more delay , I love thee well by yea and nay . Thus he endeavour'd to delude her , but she answer'd him , and said , Never was a Man more ruder , yet I will not be betray'd To your humours , no not I , Therefore make no more reply , Then he catch'd her in his arms , Saying , those alluring charms , My heart and senses does betray , I love thee well by yea and nay . She found he would not be contented , no denial would he take , Therefore she a Trick invented , and to him she thus did speak ; If I do commit this Crime , It must be some other time , Come to me too morrow night , Thou shalt have thy Hearts delight ; I will be sure , he then did say To come , my dear , by yea and nay He thought she had the truth related , seeing she had told him when ; Therefore home he went and waited , thinking every hour ten , To her Husband she did tell , E'rything that had befell ; Now when she had this declar'd , For his coming they prepar'd . As you shall hear : then listen pray , They were too hard for yea and nay . Now when the hour was expir'd , to her Chamber then he came , To enjoy what he desir'd , of this fair and comely Dame , When he was come in the room , Presently he did presume To embrace the Beauty fair , Thinking no one had been there , Her Husband rushing in straightway , Alas ! this daunted yea and nay . The good man vow'd he would not take it she had left him in the lurch , Yea and nay was almost naked , when with two stout rods of Birch He did lash both Legs and Hips , Round the room he lips and skips , With his sad and mournful Cries , Tears they trickle from his Eyes . O pardon me good Sir , I pray , I'le come no more by yea and nay . O why shouldst thou thy Heart so harden let some pity now be found , Giving me thy gracious pardon , here I'le give thee thirty pound ; Though I once have done amiss , Do not tell the World of this : If I pardon you therefore , See you tempt my Wife no more . The ready money he did pay , He would not trust poor yea and nay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-Street . THE Trappand Cuckold-maker . OR , Yea - and - Nay well fitted . A Baker went with full intent , a Beauty to adore ; Thus Yea and Nay , did run astray , But he'll do so no more . Tune is , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. THere was of late a Cuckold-maker . if you will believe the truth ; Yea and nay , he was a Quaker , yet he us'd the tricks of youth . On a day it chanced so , He would to his Neighbour go , When her Husband want within , This discourse he did begin , Saying , if thou wilt me obey , I'le tender thee by yea and nay . Love let me have my Hearts desire , wherefore shouldst thou say me nay ; Beauty sets my Heart on fire , little Lambs thou knowest will play : Since I have my love reveal'd , Prithee dearest doe but yield , I will be a constant friend , When I cannot come I'le send Thee many presents , day by day , And love thee too by yea and nay . The Woman then with modest blushes , in a passion she revil'd ; But the Quaker often Hushes her , to be more kind and mild : Thus he whisp [ e ] rs in her Ear , Tush , said he , thou needest not fear , Any manner of disgrace , We may freely here embrace : Then prithee make no more delay , I love thee well by yea and nay . Thus he endeavour'd to delude her , but she answer'd him , and said , Never was a Man more ruder , yet I will not be betray'd To your humours , no not I , Therefore make no more reply , Then he catch'd her in his arms , Saying , those alluring charms , My heart and senses does betray , I love thee well by yea and nay . She found he would not be contented , no denial would he take , Therefore she a Trick invented , and to him she thus did speak ; If I do commit this Crime , It must be some other time , Come to me too morrow night , Thou shalt have thy Hearts delight ; I will be sure , he then did say To come , my dear , by yea and nay He thought she had the truth related , seeing she had told him when ; Therefore home he went and waited , thinking every hour ten , To her Husband she did tell , E'rything that had befell ; Now when she had this declar'd , For his coming they prepar'd . As you shall hear : then listen pray , They were too hard for yea and nay . Now when the hour was expir'd , to her Chamber then he came , To enjoy what he desir'd , of this fair and comely Dame , When he was come in the room , Presently he did presume To embrace the Beauty fair , Thinking no one had been there , Her Husband rushing in straightway , Alas ! this daunted yea and nay . The good man vow'd he would not take it she had left him in the lurch , Yea and nay was almost naked , when with two stout rods of Birch He did lash both Legs and Hips , Round the room he lips and skips , With his sad and mournful Cries , Tears they trickle from his Eyes . O pardon me good Sir , I pray , I'le come no more by yea and nay . O why shouldst thou thy Heart so harden let some pity now be found , Giving me thy gracious pardon , here I'le give thee thirty pound ; Though I once have done amiss , Do not tell the World of this : If I pardon you therefore , See you tempt my Wife no more . The ready money he did pay , He would not trust poor yea and nay . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-Street . 