THE Oxfordshire Damosel , Or , The London MERCHANT'S Choice . Her Beauty Bright was his Delight , But yet she said him nay , She would not yield to him the Field , Till Marriage made the way . To the Tune of , The Job for a Journey-man-Shoomaker . THere was as Fine a London Blade , as ever trod on Leather , Most sumptuously he was array'd , his Wigg , his Hat and Feather : His Rapier hanging his by side , well mounted on a Gelding , To Oxford City he would Ride , to view the ancient Building . But he no sooner was come there in all his Pomp and Glory When meeting with a Damsel fair , a sweet and Pleasant Story To her he freely did unfold , her Love to gain the sooner , He shew'd her handfuls of his Gold , to bring her into humour . He then began to Compliment , and sweetly to embrace her , The Damsel would not give consent , that he should e're disgrace her Her modest mind was not inclin'd , nor in the least was leaning Unto his will , but answer'd still , she did not know his meaning . My Love said he , let me enjoy with thee a moments pleasure , My sweetest creature be not coy , thou shalt not want for treasure : All night within my folded arms , my Love shall lie and slumber , With many sweet delightful charms , and kisses out of number . Said she your proffer I disdain , good Sir I pray be civil , Indeed you now are much too blame , to tempt a maid to evil , Forbear to talk at such a rate . discretion has endu'd me , It is not your enchanted bait , that ever shall delude me . Kind Sir I pray now let me go , I strange and do admire , That you should seek my overthrow , to please your found desire , If there in me be any truth , I am resolv'd to tarry I'le never pleasure any youth , but those with whom I marry . The Damsel thus declar'd her mind , then without molestation , His heart was more and more inclined , he stood in Admiration : The lustre of her Beauty fair , his heart had so inflamed , That he was caught in Cupids snare , before her love he gained . My dearest Love I thee adore , if thou canst freely love me , I set by thee such mighty store , I fancy none above thee : With thee I mean to live and die , thou sweet and lovely creature , Thou art a jewel in mine eye , no Lady more Completer . She could no longer say him not , and now to end the quarrel , In Love they both together go , to buy her Rich Apparel : She looked like a sumptuous Dame , in all her rich attire , Her beauty flew on wings of Fame , his Friends did all admire . She was indeed and honest Girl , and of a modest carriage , He priz'd her more then Gold or Pearl , and joyn'd with her in Marriage ; Now may she led as sweet a life , as she is fair and Pretty , For now she is a Merchant's Wife , of London Famous City . FINIS . This may be Printed , R . LS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-Street without Newgate . THE Oxfordshire Damosel , Or , The London MERCHANT'S Choice . Her Beauty Bright was his Delight , But yet she said him nay , She would not yield to him the Field , Till Marriage made the way . To the Tune of , The Job for a Journey-man-Shoomaker . THere was as Fine a London Blade , as ever trod on Leather , Most sumptuously he was array'd , his Wigg , his Hat and Feather : His Rapier hanging his by side , well mounted on a Gelding , To Oxford City he would Ride , to view the ancient Building . But he no sooner was come there in all his Pomp and Glory When meeting with a Damsel fair , a sweet and Pleasant Story To her he freely did unfold , her Love to gain the sooner , He shew'd her handfuls of his Gold , to bring her into humour . He then began to Compliment , and sweetly to embrace her , The Damsel would not give consent , that he should e're disgrace her Her modest mind was not inclin'd , nor in the least was leaning Unto his will , but answer'd still , she did not know his meaning . My Love said he , let me enjoy with thee a moments pleasure , My sweetest creature be not coy , thou shalt not want for treasure : All night within my folded arms , my Love shall lie and slumber , With many sweet delightful charms , and kisses out of number . Said she your proffer I disdain , good Sir I pray be civil , Indeed you now are much too blame , to tempt a maid to evil , Forbear to talk at such a rate . discretion has endu'd me , It is not your enchanted bait , that ever shall delude me . Kind Sir I pray now let me go , I strange and do admire , That you should seek my overthrow , to please your found desire , If there in me be any truth , I am resolv'd to tarry I'le never pleasure any youth , but those with whom I marry . The Damsel thus declar'd her mind , then without molestation , His heart was more and more inclined , he stood in Admiration : The lustre of her Beauty fair , his heart had so inflamed , That he was caught in Cupids snare , before her love he gained . My dearest Love I thee adore , if thou canst freely love me , I set by thee such mighty store , I fancy none above thee : With thee I mean to live and die , thou sweet and lovely creature , Thou art a jewel in mine eye , no Lady more Completer . She could no longer say him not , and now to end the quarrel , In Love they both together go , to buy her Rich Apparel : She looked like a sumptuous Dame , in all her rich attire , Her beauty flew on wings of Fame , his Friends did all admire . She was indeed and honest Girl , and of a modest carriage , He priz'd her more then Gold or Pearl , and joyn'd with her in Marriage ; Now may she led as sweet a life , as she is fair and Pretty , For now she is a Merchant's Wife , of London Famous City . FINIS . This may be Printed , R . LS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-Street without Newgate . 