The Pensive Maid : OR , The Virgins Lamentation for the loss of her Lover . For seven years space she patiently did bear , The absence of her Love , as you shall hear , At length sad tidings came that he was slave , And that they never more should meet again . Tune of , Through the cool shady woods , Or , Deep in Love , etc WHen Soll will cast no light , all darkened over , And dolesome time of night the Skies did cover : Down by a Rivers side where Ships are sailing There a fair Maid I spied , weeping and wailing . I stepped unto her straight , dearest what grieves thee ? She answered me and said none can relieve me : 'Tis seven long years and more since my Love parted , And left me on this shore , quite broken hearted . He promised to return , if life was lent him , Which makes me sighs & mourn , death does prevent him : Oh that I could but hear some tidings from him , How it my heart would cheer , for all my longing . A young man straight she spied like one amazed , Which did a token bring whereon she gazed ; Where is my Love ? quoth she , that comes not near me , The Youngman he reply'd , please for to hear me . YOur Love and I did fight under one Banner , Maintaining Englands right , pure hasing Honour : He was a Seaman bold , of courage valiant , Scorning to be controlled , by e're a Gallant . But in a Dreadful Fight where Guns did rattle , And many a Gallant Wight , fell in the Battle : His fatal destiny near was approaching , And summon'd him away , by Death's Encroaching . When he his Death's wound had and brains were broken , To me these words he said , deliver this token , To her that hath my heart , and is more dearer , Wishing her for my sake , to love the Bearer . And having spoke these words , he then declined , And in a stream of blood his life resigned , Leaving me full of care , sad news to bear it , His death for to declare as you now hear it . When she the tidings herd , with this sad potion , She like a stock appear'd without all motion , At length her spirits came by grief Inflamed , And then with floods of tears thus she exclaimed . O you great powers above , which life does lend us And thou the God of Love that did befriend us , Why have you snatched away my dearest sweating And by your cruelty spoiled our meeting ? Since that my Love is dead whom I did tender No comfort I will take but life surrender : In some unwonted paths there will I wander , And prove more constant then ere was Leander . And so vain world farewell and all thy pleasure , Since he is gone that was my chiefest Treasure , In the Elizium shades there will I hide me Until I find my Love what e're betide me . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . The Pensive Maid : OR , The Virgins Lamentation for the loss of her Lover . For seven years space she patiently did bear , The absence of her Love , as you shall hear , At length sad tidings came that he was slave , And that they never more should meet again . Tune of , Through the cool shady woods , Or , Deep in Love , etc WHen Soll will cast no light , all darkened over , And dolesome time of night the Skies did cover : Down by a Rivers side where Ships are sailing There a fair Maid I spied , weeping and wailing . I stepped unto her straight , dearest what grieves thee ? She answered me and said none can relieve me : 'Tis seven long years and more since my Love parted , And left me on this shore , quite broken hearted . He promised to return , if life was lent him , Which makes me sighs & mourn , death does prevent him : Oh that I could but hear some tidings from him , How it my heart would cheer , for all my longing . A young man straight she spied like one amazed , Which did a token bring whereon she gazed ; Where is my Love ? quoth she , that comes not near me , The Youngman he reply'd , please for to hear me . YOur Love and I did fight under one Banner , Maintaining Englands right , pure hasing Honour : He was a Seaman bold , of courage valiant , Scorning to be controlled , by e're a Gallant . But in a Dreadful Fight where Guns did rattle , And many a Gallant Wight , fell in the Battle : His fatal destiny near was approaching , And summon'd him away , by Death's Encroaching . When he his Death's wound had and brains were broken , To me these words he said , deliver this token , To her that hath my heart , and is more dearer , Wishing her for my sake , to love the Bearer . And having spoke these words , he then declined , And in a stream of blood his life resigned , Leaving me full of care , sad news to bear it , His death for to declare as you now hear it . When she the tidings herd , with this sad potion , She like a stock appear'd without all motion , At length her spirits came by grief Inflamed , And then with floods of tears thus she exclaimed . O you great powers above , which life does lend us And thou the God of Love that did befriend us , Why have you snatched away my dearest sweating And by your cruelty spoiled our meeting ? Since that my Love is dead whom I did tender No comfort I will take but life surrender : In some unwonted paths there will I wander , And prove more constant then ere was Leander . And so vain world farewell and all thy pleasure , Since he is gone that was my chiefest Treasure , In the Elizium shades there will I hide me Until I find my Love what e're betide me . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . The Pensive Maid : OR , The Virgins Lamentation for the loss of her Lover . For seven years space she patiently did bear , The absence of her Love , as you shall hear , At length sad tidings came that he was slave , And that they never more should meet again . Tune of , Through the cool shady woods , Or , Deep in Love , etc WHen Soll will cast no light , all darkened over , And dolesome time of night the Skies did cover : Down by a Rivers side where Ships are sailing There a fair Maid I spied , weeping and wailing . I stepped unto her straight , dearest what grieves thee ? She answered me and said none can relieve me : 'Tis seven long years and more since my Love parted , And left me on this shore , quite broken hearted . He promised to return , if life was lent him , Which makes me sighs & mourn , death does prevent him : Oh that I could but hear some tidings from him , How it my heart would cheer , for all my longing . A young man straight she spied like one amazed , Which did a token bring whereon she gazed ; Where is my Love ? quoth she , that comes not near me , The Youngman he reply'd , please for to hear me . YOur Love and I did fight under one Banner , Maintaining Englands right , pure hasing Honour : He was a Seaman bold , of courage valiant , Scorning to be controlled , by e're a Gallant . But in a Dreadful Fight where Guns did rattle , And many a Gallant Wight , fell in the Battle : His fatal destiny near was approaching , And summon'd him away , by Death's Encroaching . When he his Death's wound had and brains were broken , To me these words he said , deliver this token , To her that hath my heart , and is more dearer , Wishing her for my sake , to love the Bearer . And having spoke these words , he then declined , And in a stream of blood his life resigned , Leaving me full of care , sad news to bear it , His death for to declare as you now hear it . When she the tidings herd , with this sad potion , She like a stock appear'd without all motion , At length her spirits came by grief Inflamed , And then with floods of tears thus she exclaimed . O you great powers above , which life does lend us And thou the God of Love that did befriend us , Why have you snatched away my dearest sweating And by your cruelty spoiled our meeting ? Since that my Love is dead whom I did tender No comfort I will take but life surrender : In some unwonted paths there will I wander , And prove more constant then ere was Leander . And so vain world farewell and all thy pleasure , Since he is gone that was my chiefest Treasure , In the Elizium shades there will I hide me Until I find my Love what e're betide me . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . The Pensive Maid : OR , The Virgins Lamentation for the loss of her Lover . For seven years space she patiently did bear , The absence of her Love , as you shall hear , At length sad tidings came that he was slave , And that they never more should meet again . Tune of , Through the cool shady woods , Or , Deep in Love , etc WHen Soll will cast no light , all darkened over , And dolesome time of night the Skies did cover : Down by a Rivers side where Ships are sailing There a fair Maid I spied , weeping and wailing . I stepped unto her straight , dearest what grieves thee ? She answered me and said none can relieve me : 'Tis seven long years and more since my Love parted , And left me on this shore , quite broken hearted . He promised to return , if life was lent him , Which makes me sighs & mourn , death does prevent him : Oh that I could but hear some tidings from him , How it my heart would cheer , for all my longing . A young man straight she spied like one amazed , Which did a token bring whereon she gazed ; Where is my Love ? quoth she , that comes not near me , The Youngman he reply'd , please for to hear me . YOur Love and I did fight under one Banner , Maintaining Englands right , pure hasing Honour : He was a Seaman bold , of courage valiant , Scorning to be controlled , by e're a Gallant . But in a Dreadful Fight where Guns did rattle , And many a Gallant Wight , fell in the Battle : His fatal destiny near was approaching , And summon'd him away , by Death's Encroaching . When he his Death's wound had and brains were broken , To me these words he said , deliver this token , To her that hath my heart , and is more dearer , Wishing her for my sake , to love the Bearer . And having spoke these words , he then declined , And in a stream of blood his life resigned , Leaving me full of care , sad news to bear it , His death for to declare as you now hear it . When she the tidings herd , with this sad potion , She like a stock appear'd without all motion , At length her spirits came by grief Inflamed , And then with floods of tears thus she exclaimed . O you great powers above , which life does lend us And thou the God of Love that did befriend us , Why have you snatched away my dearest sweating And by your cruelty spoiled our meeting ? Since that my Love is dead whom I did tender No comfort I will take but life surrender : In some unwonted paths there will I wander , And prove more constant then ere was Leander . And so vain world farewell and all thy pleasure , Since he is gone that was my chiefest Treasure , In the Elizium shades there will I hide me Until I find my Love what e're betide me . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . 