The Faithful SQUIRE : OR , The Fortunate Farmer's Daughter : Had she consented to his will , when he rid first that way , She might have been unmarried still , though now a Lady Gay . To the Tune of , Charon . This may be Printed , R. P. THere was I'll tell you a wealthy young Squire , Who took his Journey to Gloucestershire , Decked in such gawdy and sumptuous attire , Which might become a right noble Peer ; As he rid through a place call'd Streeter , strange flames of Love he then did feel , It was at the sighed of a Beautiful Creature , as she sat close at her Spinning Wheel . He had no power alas ! to ride by her , but stood and gaz'd on her Beauty bright ; And was resolved that minute to try her , hoping she'd grant him his hearts delight , Silver and Gold this Gallant shew'd her , hoping thereby to have his will But his kind proffers could no ways delude her . she was resolv'd to live honest still . Often he told her that he would advance her , if she would tell him her Pedigree ; Then she with blushes return'd him this answer , I was born of a mean Family ; Yet I'll not be at your Devotion , I valve not a Golden Gain , Though I have never a Groat to my Portion , my Credit , Sir , I will never stain . Finding he could not obtain his desire , he rid away in a cruel Rage , Vowing again he wou'd never come nigh her ; but yet his flames he could not assuage : The more he labour'd to forget her , the fresher she ran in his mind ; To be his Lady he needs must admit her , Beauty had so far his Heart confin'd . With his Relations he tarried a season , where there was beautiful Ladies store ; Thus with himself he began for to reason , why should I marry w [ i ] th one so poor , When I may have my choice of many , which are both wealthy , fair and w [ i ] se ; Yet among these I cannot fancy any , the Farmers Daughter hath wone the Prize . W [ i ] th his Relations he long could not tarry , because he had left his heart behind , With that fair Beauty , which he vows to marry , if that he might but her favour find : Then in a week , or fortnight after , he to her Father's house did ride , Saying , if that you will give me your Daughter , Sir , I will make her my lawful Bride . Then said her Father , I much do admire , that you on her so much love should place , Seeing your Garb and most Sumptuous attire , speaks you to be of a noble Raze , You may have Ladies at your leisure , wealthy and fit for your Degree : I have not want , sa [ i ] worser the Squire , of Treasure , she is more precious than Gold to me . There is no Lady most noble descended , that shall be honour'd , Sir , more than she ; With many Servants she shall be attended , And I my self in her company : Oh then bespoke her loving Father , may all the Powers now Divine , Make you for ever most happy together , get her good will , and I'll grant you mine . Then the young Squire saluted his Beauty , who gave him freely both Heart and Hand , Saying , for ever she own'd it her Duty , to be obedient to his command : And in some three or four days after , their Joys they did with comfort crown ; This Squire marry'd the Farmer's fair Daughter , and liv'd together near London Town . Though in this happy and splendid condition , yet like the innocent tender Dove , She is a stranger to Pride and Ambition , in her Humility's grac'd with Love : So that her Carriage is commended by many Lords of high degree , And the young Ladies most noble descended , daily delights in her Company . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street . The Faithful SQUIRE : OR , The Fortunate Farmer's Daughter : Had she consented to his will , when he rid first that way , She might have been unmarried still , though now a Lady Gay . To the Tune of , Charon . This may be Printed , R. P. THere was I'll tell you a wealthy young Squire , Who took his Journey to Gloucestershire , Decked in such gawdy and sumptuous attire , Which might become a right noble Peer ; As he rid through a place call'd Streeter , strange flames of Love he then did feel , It was at the sighed of a Beautiful Creature , as she sat close at her Spinning Wheel . He had no power alas ! to ride by her , but stood and gaz'd on her Beauty bright ; And was resolved that minute to try her , hoping she'd grant him his hearts delight , Silver and Gold this Gallant shew'd her , hoping thereby to have his will But his kind proffers could no ways delude her . she was resolv'd to live honest still . Often he told her that he would advance her , if she would tell him her Pedigree ; Then she with blushes return'd him this answer , I was born of a mean Family ; Yet I'll not be at your Devotion , I valve not a Golden Gain , Though I have never a Groat to my Portion , my Credit , Sir , I will never stain . Finding he could not obtain his desire , he rid away in a cruel Rage , Vowing again he wou'd never come nigh her ; but yet his flames he could not assuage : The more he labour'd to forget her , the fresher she ran in his mind ; To be his Lady he needs must admit her , Beauty had so far his Heart confin'd . With his Relations he tarried a season , where there was beautiful Ladies store ; Thus with himself he began for to reason , why should I marry w [ i ] th one so poor , When I may have my choice of many , which are both wealthy , fair and w [ i ] se ; Yet among these I cannot fancy any , the Farmers Daughter hath wone the Prize . W [ i ] th his Relations he long could not tarry , because he had left his heart behind , With that fair Beauty , which he vows to marry , if that he might but her favour find : Then in a week , or fortnight after , he to her Father's house did ride , Saying , if that you will give me your Daughter , Sir , I will make her my lawful Bride . Then said her Father , I much do admire , that you on her so much love should place , Seeing your Garb and most Sumptuous attire , speaks you to be of a noble Raze , You may have Ladies at your leisure , wealthy and fit for your Degree : I have not want , sa [ i ] worser the Squire , of Treasure , she is more precious than Gold to me . There is no Lady most noble descended , that shall be honour'd , Sir , more than she ; With many Servants she shall be attended , And I my self in her company : Oh then bespoke her loving Father , may all the Powers now Divine , Make you for ever most happy together , get her good will , and I'll grant you mine . Then the young Squire saluted his Beauty , who gave him freely both Heart and Hand , Saying , for ever she own'd it her Duty , to be obedient to his command : And in some three or four days after , their Joys they did with comfort crown ; This Squire marry'd the Farmer's fair Daughter , and liv'd together near London Town . Though in this happy and splendid condition , yet like the innocent tender Dove , She is a stranger to Pride and Ambition , in her Humility's grac'd with Love : So that her Carriage is commended by many Lords of high degree , And the young Ladies most noble descended , daily delights in her Company . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street . 