The Frowns of FATE , OR , And ANSWER To the Young-Mans Unfortunate Destiny . When Maids so Coy will slight their Joy , With scorn , and high Disdain , Then grief and care with sad Despair , Will end their Days in pain . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . WHen she heard how he died , in a sad and woeful state . Bitterly aloud she cried , and in sorrow did relate ; Was I cruel to my jewel , that in Love did me adore , Well she cried , and replied , I shall never see thee more . O that I had ne'r denied , what he did propose to me , But had willingly complied , with his Civil Courtesy : Love unfeigned , never stained , but as constant as the day . Death possess me , Heavens Bless me , I have cast thy life away . He most courteously did woo me , it is I that am too blame , He did proffer to endue me , with a plenty to maintain Me in Splendour , this does render , all my actions now to be , To refuse him , and abuse him , by usurping Tyranny . Oftentime he hath entreated , that he might salute my hand , Yea , and many times repeated he would be at my command So entire , his desire was to love without deceit , When he smiled , I reviled , and did scornfully retreat . Now too late I do repent it , I have cast his life away , Had I but in love consented , he had never seen the day : When we parted , broken hearted , he with sorrow was oppress And bewailed , as he Sailed , over Neptunes Curled breast . I in sorrow am surrounded , that I know not where to go , My poor heart with grief is wounded , I am in a Sea of woe ; No remission , my condition is to languish to my grave , To appease me , Death come seize me , this is that I fain would have . Cupid now does over rule me , with his sharp severity , He does so chastise and School me , that I wish I now was free For his power ; he I devour all the comfort of my life , Never ceasing , but increasing , death must surely end the strife . Love , the thought of thee is killing , I am haunted now with fears , Heart and life with grief is filling , and a thousand melting tears Now is flowing , life is going hence , into Eternity , Then she cried , and replied , love , I'le die , and come to thee . Then her reason quite forsook her , falling into deep despair , In her hand a Knife she took her , which did soon her life impair ; She lay bleeding , so exceeding , bidding now the World adieu ; Death that hour , came in power , and in full Commission too . You that hear this mournful Ditty , of true Lovers Tragedy , Let your heart be mov'd to pity , learn to love with Loyalty ; Then you'l flourish , when you nourish , he that does you highly prize , Ne'r conceal it , but reveal it , why should Lovers Tyrannise . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . The Frowns of FATE , OR , And ANSWER To the Young-Mans Unfortunate Destiny . When Maids so Coy will slight their Joy , With scorn , and high Disdain , Then grief and care with sad Despair , Will end their Days in pain . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . WHen she heard how he died , in a sad and woeful state . Bitterly aloud she cried , and in sorrow did relate ; Was I cruel to my jewel , that in Love did me adore , Well she cried , and replied , I shall never see thee more . O that I had ne'r denied , what he did propose to me , But had willingly complied , with his Civil Courtesy : Love unfeigned , never stained , but as constant as the day . Death possess me , Heavens Bless me , I have cast thy life away . He most courteously did woo me , it is I that am too blame , He did proffer to endue me , with a plenty to maintain Me in Splendour , this does render , all my actions now to be , To refuse him , and abuse him , by usurping Tyranny . Oftentime he hath entreated , that he might salute my hand , Yea , and many times repeated he would be at my command So entire , his desire was to love without deceit , When he smiled , I reviled , and did scornfully retreat . Now too late I do repent it , I have cast his life away , Had I but in love consented , he had never seen the day : When we parted , broken hearted , he with sorrow was oppress And bewailed , as he Sailed , over Neptunes Curled breast . I in sorrow am surrounded , that I know not where to go , My poor heart with grief is wounded , I am in a Sea of woe ; No remission , my condition is to languish to my grave , To appease me , Death come seize me , this is that I fain would have . Cupid now does over rule me , with his sharp severity , He does so chastise and School me , that I wish I now was free For his power ; he I devour all the comfort of my life , Never ceasing , but increasing , death must surely end the strife . Love , the thought of thee is killing , I am haunted now with fears , Heart and life with grief is filling , and a thousand melting tears Now is flowing , life is going hence , into Eternity , Then she cried , and replied , love , I'le die , and come to thee . Then her reason quite forsook her , falling into deep despair , In her hand a Knife she took her , which did soon her life impair ; She lay bleeding , so exceeding , bidding now the World adieu ; Death that hour , came in power , and in full Commission too . You that hear this mournful Ditty , of true Lovers Tragedy , Let your heart be mov'd to pity , learn to love with Loyalty ; Then you'l flourish , when you nourish , he that does you highly prize , Ne'r conceal it , but reveal it , why should Lovers Tyrannise . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . The Frowns of FATE , OR , And ANSWER To the Young-Mans Unfortunate Destiny . When Maids so Coy will slight their Joy , With scorn , and high Disdain , Then grief and care with sad Despair , Will end their Days in pain . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . WHen she heard how he died , in a sad and woeful state . Bitterly aloud she cried , and in sorrow did relate ; Was I cruel to my jewel , that in Love did me adore , Well she cried , and replied , I shall never see thee more . O that I had ne'r denied , what he did propose to me , But had willingly complied , with his Civil Courtesy : Love unfeigned , never stained , but as constant as the day . Death possess me , Heavens Bless me , I have cast thy life away . He most courteously did woo me , it is I that am too blame , He did proffer to endue me , with a plenty to maintain Me in Splendour , this does render , all my actions now to be , To refuse him , and abuse him , by usurping Tyranny . Oftentime he hath entreated , that he might salute my hand , Yea , and many times repeated he would be at my command So entire , his desire was to love without deceit , When he smiled , I reviled , and did scornfully retreat . Now too late I do repent it , I have cast his life away , Had I but in love consented , he had never seen the day : When we parted , broken hearted , he with sorrow was oppress And bewailed , as he Sailed , over Neptunes Curled breast . I in sorrow am surrounded , that I know not where to go , My poor heart with grief is wounded , I am in a Sea of woe ; No remission , my condition is to languish to my grave , To appease me , Death come seize me , this is that I fain would have . Cupid now does over rule me , with his sharp severity , He does so chastise and School me , that I wish I now was free For his power ; he I devour all the comfort of my life , Never ceasing , but increasing , death must surely end the strife . Love , the thought of thee is killing , I am haunted now with fears , Heart and life with grief is filling , and a thousand melting tears Now is flowing , life is going hence , into Eternity , Then she cried , and replied , love , I'le die , and come to thee . Then her reason quite forsook her , falling into deep despair , In her hand a Knife she took her , which did soon her life impair ; She lay bleeding , so exceeding , bidding now the World adieu ; Death that hour , came in power , and in full Commission too . You that hear this mournful Ditty , of true Lovers Tragedy , Let your heart be mov'd to pity , learn to love with Loyalty ; Then you'l flourish , when you nourish , he that does you highly prize , Ne'r conceal it , but reveal it , why should Lovers Tyrannise . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . The Frowns of FATE , OR , And ANSWER To the Young-Mans Unfortunate Destiny . When Maids so Coy will slight their Joy , With scorn , and high Disdain , Then grief and care with sad Despair , Will end their Days in pain . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . WHen she heard how he died , in a sad and woeful state . Bitterly aloud she cried , and in sorrow did relate ; Was I cruel to my jewel , that in Love did me adore , Well she cried , and replied , I shall never see thee more . O that I had ne'r denied , what he did propose to me , But had willingly complied , with his Civil Courtesy : Love unfeigned , never stained , but as constant as the day . Death possess me , Heavens Bless me , I have cast thy life away . He most courteously did woo me , it is I that am too blame , He did proffer to endue me , with a plenty to maintain Me in Splendour , this does render , all my actions now to be , To refuse him , and abuse him , by usurping Tyranny . Oftentime he hath entreated , that he might salute my hand , Yea , and many times repeated he would be at my command So entire , his desire was to love without deceit , When he smiled , I reviled , and did scornfully retreat . Now too late I do repent it , I have cast his life away , Had I but in love consented , he had never seen the day : When we parted , broken hearted , he with sorrow was oppress And bewailed , as he Sailed , over Neptunes Curled breast . I in sorrow am surrounded , that I know not where to go , My poor heart with grief is wounded , I am in a Sea of woe ; No remission , my condition is to languish to my grave , To appease me , Death come seize me , this is that I fain would have . Cupid now does over rule me , with his sharp severity , He does so chastise and School me , that I wish I now was free For his power ; he I devour all the comfort of my life , Never ceasing , but increasing , death must surely end the strife . Love , the thought of thee is killing , I am haunted now with fears , Heart and life with grief is filling , and a thousand melting tears Now is flowing , life is going hence , into Eternity , Then she cried , and replied , love , I'le die , and come to thee . Then her reason quite forsook her , falling into deep despair , In her hand a Knife she took her , which did soon her life impair ; She lay bleeding , so exceeding , bidding now the World adieu ; Death that hour , came in power , and in full Commission too . You that hear this mournful Ditty , of true Lovers Tragedy , Let your heart be mov'd to pity , learn to love with Loyalty ; Then you'l flourish , when you nourish , he that does you highly prize , Ne'r conceal it , but reveal it , why should Lovers Tyrannise . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . 