Robin Hood and Little John ; BEING And Account of their first Meeting , their fierce Encounter and Conquest . To which is added , Their friendly Agreement , and how he came to be call'd Little John. To the Tune of , Arthur a Bland . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WHen Robin Hood was about twenty years old , with a heigh down , down and a down , He happen'd to meet Little John , a jolly brisk Blade , right fit for the trade , For he was a lusty young Man. Though he was call'd Little , his limbs they were large , with a heigh , etc And his stature was seven foot high ; wherever he came , they quak'd at his name , For soon he wou'd make them to fly . How they came acquainted , I'll tell you in brief , with a heigh , etc If you will but listen a while ; for this very jest , among all the rest , I think it may cause you to smile : Bold Robin Hood said to his jolly Bowmen , with a heigh , etc Pray tarry you here in this grove , and see that you all , observe well my call , While through the forest I rove . We have had no sport for these fourteen long days , with a heigh , etc Therefore now abroad will I go ; now should I be beatrice , and cannot retreat , My horn I will presently blow . Then did he shake hands with his merry Men all , with a heigh , etc And bid them at present goodby ; then as near a brook his journey he took , A Stranger he chanc'd to espy : They happen'd to meet on a long narrow bridge , with a heigh , etc And neither of them wou'd give way ; quoth bold Robin Hood , and sturdily stood , I'll show you right Nottingham play ; With that from his quiver and arrow he drew , with a heigh , etc A broad arrow with a goosewing : the Stranger reply'd , I'll licker thy hide , If thou offer to touch the string . Quoth bold Robin Hood , Thou do'st prate like and Ass , with a heigh , etc For were I to bend but my bow , I could send a dart quite through thy proud heart , Before thou could'st strike me one blow . You talk like a Coward , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc Well arm'd with a long bow you stand , to shoot at my breast , while I , I protest , Have nought but a staff in my hand . The name of a Coward , quoth Robin , I scorn , with a heigh , etc Wherefore my long bow I'll lay by , and now for thy sake a staff I will take , The truth of thy Manhood to try . Then Robin Hood stepped to a thicket of trees , with a heigh , etc And chosen him a staff of ground oak ; now this being done , away he did run To the Stranger , and merrily spoke : Lo , see my staff , it is lusty and tough , with a heigh , etc Now here on the bridge we will play ; whoever falls in , the other shall win The battle , and so we'll away . With all my whole heart to thy humour I yield , with a heigh , etc I scorn in the least to give ou this said , they fell to 't without more dispute , And their staffs they did flourish about . And first Robin he gave the Stranger a bang , with a heigh , etc So hard that it made his bones ring : the Stranger he said , This must be repaid ; I'll give you as good as you bring : So long as I am able to handle my staff , with a heigh , etc To die in your debt , Friend , I scorn : then to it both goes , and follow'd their blows , As if they'd been thrashing of corn . The Stranger gave Robin a crack on the crown , with a heigh , etc Which caused the blood to appear ; then Robin enrag [ ' ] worser , more fiercely engag'd , And follow'd his blows more severe ; So thick and so fast he did lay it on him , with a heigh , etc With passionate fury and eyre , at every stroke he made him to smoke , As if he had been all on a fire . O then into a fury the Stranger he grew , with a heigh , etc And gave him a damnable look , and with it a blow , that laid him full low , And tumbl'd him into the brook . I prithee , good Fellow , Oh where art thou now ? with a heigh , etc The Stranger in laugher he cry'd : quoth bold Robin Hood , Good faith in the flood , And floating along with the tide . I needs must acknowledge thou art a brave Soul with a heigh , etc With thee I'll no longer contend ; for needs must I say , thou hast god the day , Our battle shall be at and end . Then , then to the bank he did presently wade , with a heigh , etc And pull [ ' ] worser himself out by a thorn ; which done , at the last , he blow'd a loud blast Straitways on his fine bugle-horn : The echo of which through the valleys did fly , with a heigh , etc At which his stout Bowmen appear'd , all clothed in green , most gay to be seen , So up to their Master they steered : Oh what's the matter ? quoth William Stuteley ; with a heigh , etc Good Master , you are wet to the shin ? No matter , quoth he , the Lad which you see , In fighting he tumbl'd me in . He shall not go scot free , the others reply'd , with a heigh , etc So straight they were seizing him there , to duck him likewise ; but Robin Hood cries , He is a stout Fellow , forbear . There's no one shall wrong thee , Friend , be not afraid , with a heigh , etc These Bowmen upon me do wait ; there's threescore and nine ; if thou wilt be mine , Thou shalt have my livery strait , And other accoutrements fit for my Train : with a heigh , etc Speak up , jolly Blade , ne'r fear , I'll reach thee also the use of the bow , To shoot at the fat fallow-deer . O here is my hand , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc I'll serve you with all my whole heart ; my name is John Little , a Man of good mettle , Ne'r doubt me , for I'll play my part . His name shall be alter'd , quoth William Stuteley , with a heigh , etc And I will his Godfather be ; prepare then a feast , and none of the least , For we will be merry , quoth he . They presently fetch'd in a brace of fat does , with a heigh , etc With humming strong liquour likewise ; they lov'd what was good : so in the green wood This pretty sweet Babe they baptise . He was , I must tell you , but seven foot high , with a heigh , etc And may be and ell in the waste ; a pretty sweet Lad ; much feasting they had : Bold Robin the Christ'ning grac'd , With all his Bowmen , which stood in a ring ; with a heigh , etc And were of the Nottingham Breed ; brave Stuteley comes then , with seven Yeomen , And did in this manner proceed : This Infant was called John Little , quoth he , with a heigh , etc Which name shall be changed anon , the words we'll transpose , so wherever he goes , His name shall be call'd Little John. They all with a shout made the elements ring , with a heigh , etc So soon as this Office was o're , to feasting they went with true merriment , And tipl'd strong liquour gallore . Then Robin he took the pretty sweet Babe , with a heigh , etc And cloath'd him from top to the toe , in garments of green , most gay to be seen , And gave him a curtous long bow . Thou shalt be and Archer as well as the best , with a heigh , etc And range in the green wood with us , where we'll not want gold , nor silver , behold , While Bishops have ought in their purse . We'll live here like Esquires or Lords of Renown , with a heigh , etc Without e're a foot of free land ; we feast on good cheer , with wine , ale and beer , And ev'ry thing at our command . Then music and dancing did finish the day , with a heigh , etc At length when the sun waxed low , then all the whole Train the grove did refrain , And unto their caves they did go . And so ever after , as long as he liv'd , with a heigh down , down and a down , Although he was proper and tall , yet nevertheless , the truth to express , Still Little John they did him call . LONDON : Printed by and for W. Onley , and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . Robin Hood and Little John ; BEING And Account of their first Meeting , their fierce Encounter and Conquest . To which is added , Their friendly Agreement , and how he came to be call'd Little John. To the Tune of , Arthur a Bland . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WHen Robin Hood was about twenty years old , with a heigh down , down and a down , He happen'd to meet Little John , a jolly brisk Blade , right fit for the trade , For he was a lusty young Man. Though he was call'd Little , his limbs they were large , with a heigh , etc And his stature was seven foot high ; wherever he came , they quak'd at his name , For soon he wou'd make them to fly . How they came acquainted , I'll tell you in brief , with a heigh , etc If you will but listen a while ; for this very jest , among all the rest , I think it may cause you to smile : Bold Robin Hood said to his jolly Bowmen , with a heigh , etc Pray tarry you here in this grove , and see that you all , observe well my call , While through the forest I rove . We have had no sport for these fourteen long days , with a heigh , etc Therefore now abroad will I go ; now should I be beatrice , and cannot retreat , My horn I will presently blow . Then did he shake hands with his merry Men all , with a heigh , etc And bid them at present goodby ; then as near a brook his journey he took , A Stranger he chanc'd to espy : They happen'd to meet on a long narrow bridge , with a heigh , etc And neither of them wou'd give way ; quoth bold Robin Hood , and sturdily stood , I'll show you right Nottingham play ; With that from his quiver and arrow he drew , with a heigh , etc A broad arrow with a goosewing : the Stranger reply'd , I'll licker thy hide , If thou offer to touch the string . Quoth bold Robin Hood , Thou do'st prate like and Ass , with a heigh , etc For were I to bend but my bow , I could send a dart quite through thy proud heart , Before thou could'st strike me one blow . You talk like a Coward , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc Well arm'd with a long bow you stand , to shoot at my breast , while I , I protest , Have nought but a staff in my hand . The name of a Coward , quoth Robin , I scorn , with a heigh , etc Wherefore my long bow I'll lay by , and now for thy sake a staff I will take , The truth of thy Manhood to try . Then Robin Hood stepped to a thicket of trees , with a heigh , etc And chosen him a staff of ground oak ; now this being done , away he did run To the Stranger , and merrily spoke : Lo , see my staff , it is lusty and tough , with a heigh , etc Now here on the bridge we will play ; whoever falls in , the other shall win The battle , and so we'll away . With all my whole heart to thy humour I yield , with a heigh , etc I scorn in the least to give ou this said , they fell to 't without more dispute , And their staffs they did flourish about . And first Robin he gave the Stranger a bang , with a heigh , etc So hard that it made his bones ring : the Stranger he said , This must be repaid ; I'll give you as good as you bring : So long as I am able to handle my staff , with a heigh , etc To die in your debt , Friend , I scorn : then to it both goes , and follow'd their blows , As if they'd been thrashing of corn . The Stranger gave Robin a crack on the crown , with a heigh , etc Which caused the blood to appear ; then Robin enrag [ ' ] worser , more fiercely engag'd , And follow'd his blows more severe ; So thick and so fast he did lay it on him , with a heigh , etc With passionate fury and eyre , at every stroke he made him to smoke , As if he had been all on a fire . O then into a fury the Stranger he grew , with a heigh , etc And gave him a damnable look , and with it a blow , that laid him full low , And tumbl'd him into the brook . I prithee , good Fellow , Oh where art thou now ? with a heigh , etc The Stranger in laugher he cry'd : quoth bold Robin Hood , Good faith in the flood , And floating along with the tide . I needs must acknowledge thou art a brave Soul with a heigh , etc With thee I'll no longer contend ; for needs must I say , thou hast god the day , Our battle shall be at and end . Then , then to the bank he did presently wade , with a heigh , etc And pull [ ' ] worser himself out by a thorn ; which done , at the last , he blow'd a loud blast Straitways on his fine bugle-horn : The echo of which through the valleys did fly , with a heigh , etc At which his stout Bowmen appear'd , all clothed in green , most gay to be seen , So up to their Master they steered : Oh what's the matter ? quoth William Stuteley ; with a heigh , etc Good Master , you are wet to the shin ? No matter , quoth he , the Lad which you see , In fighting he tumbl'd me in . He shall not go scot free , the others reply'd , with a heigh , etc So straight they were seizing him there , to duck him likewise ; but Robin Hood cries , He is a stout Fellow , forbear . There's no one shall wrong thee , Friend , be not afraid , with a heigh , etc These Bowmen upon me do wait ; there's threescore and nine ; if thou wilt be mine , Thou shalt have my livery strait , And other accoutrements fit for my Train : with a heigh , etc Speak up , jolly Blade , ne'r fear , I'll reach thee also the use of the bow , To shoot at the fat fallow-deer . O here is my hand , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc I'll serve you with all my whole heart ; my name is John Little , a Man of good mettle , Ne'r doubt me , for I'll play my part . His name shall be alter'd , quoth William Stuteley , with a heigh , etc And I will his Godfather be ; prepare then a feast , and none of the least , For we will be merry , quoth he . They presently fetch'd in a brace of fat does , with a heigh , etc With humming strong liquour likewise ; they lov'd what was good : so in the green wood This pretty sweet Babe they baptise . He was , I must tell you , but seven foot high , with a heigh , etc And may be and ell in the waste ; a pretty sweet Lad ; much feasting they had : Bold Robin the Christ'ning grac'd , With all his Bowmen , which stood in a ring ; with a heigh , etc And were of the Nottingham Breed ; brave Stuteley comes then , with seven Yeomen , And did in this manner proceed : This Infant was called John Little , quoth he , with a heigh , etc Which name shall be changed anon , the words we'll transpose , so wherever he goes , His name shall be call'd Little John. They all with a shout made the elements ring , with a heigh , etc So soon as this Office was o're , to feasting they went with true merriment , And tipl'd strong liquour gallore . Then Robin he took the pretty sweet Babe , with a heigh , etc And cloath'd him from top to the toe , in garments of green , most gay to be seen , And gave him a curtous long bow . Thou shalt be and Archer as well as the best , with a heigh , etc And range in the green wood with us , where we'll not want gold , nor silver , behold , While Bishops have ought in their purse . We'll live here like Esquires or Lords of Renown , with a heigh , etc Without e're a foot of free land ; we feast on good cheer , with wine , ale and beer , And ev'ry thing at our command . Then music and dancing did finish the day , with a heigh , etc At length when the sun waxed low , then all the whole Train the grove did refrain , And unto their caves they did go . And so ever after , as long as he liv'd , with a heigh down , down and a down , Although he was proper and tall , yet nevertheless , the truth to express , Still Little John they did him call . LONDON : Printed by and for W. Onley , and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . Robin Hood and Little John ; BEING And Account of their first Meeting , their fierce Encounter and Conquest . To which is added , Their friendly Agreement , and how he came to be call'd Little John. To the Tune of , Arthur a Bland . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WHen Robin Hood was about twenty years old , with a heigh down , down and a down , He happen'd to meet Little John , a jolly brisk Blade , right fit for the trade , For he was a lusty young Man. Though he was call'd Little , his limbs they were large , with a heigh , etc And his stature was seven foot high ; wherever he came , they quak'd at his name , For soon he wou'd make them to fly . How they came acquainted , I'll tell you in brief , with a heigh , etc If you will but listen a while ; for this very jest , among all the rest , I think it may cause you to smile : Bold Robin Hood said to his jolly Bowmen , with a heigh , etc Pray tarry you here in this grove , and see that you all , observe well my call , While through the forest I rove . We have had no sport for these fourteen long days , with a heigh , etc Therefore now abroad will I go ; now should I be beatrice , and cannot retreat , My horn I will presently blow . Then did he shake hands with his merry Men all , with a heigh , etc And bid them at present goodby ; then as near a brook his journey he took , A Stranger he chanc'd to espy : They happen'd to meet on a long narrow bridge , with a heigh , etc And neither of them wou'd give way ; quoth bold Robin Hood , and sturdily stood , I'll show you right Nottingham play ; With that from his quiver and arrow he drew , with a heigh , etc A broad arrow with a goosewing : the Stranger reply'd , I'll licker thy hide , If thou offer to touch the string . Quoth bold Robin Hood , Thou do'st prate like and Ass , with a heigh , etc For were I to bend but my bow , I could send a dart quite through thy proud heart , Before thou could'st strike me one blow . You talk like a Coward , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc Well arm'd with a long bow you stand , to shoot at my breast , while I , I protest , Have nought but a staff in my hand . The name of a Coward , quoth Robin , I scorn , with a heigh , etc Wherefore my long bow I'll lay by , and now for thy sake a staff I will take , The truth of thy Manhood to try . Then Robin Hood stepped to a thicket of trees , with a heigh , etc And chosen him a staff of ground oak ; now this being done , away he did run To the Stranger , and merrily spoke : Lo , see my staff , it is lusty and tough , with a heigh , etc Now here on the bridge we will play ; whoever falls in , the other shall win The battle , and so we'll away . With all my whole heart to thy humour I yield , with a heigh , etc I scorn in the least to give ou this said , they fell to 't without more dispute , And their staffs they did flourish about . And first Robin he gave the Stranger a bang , with a heigh , etc So hard that it made his bones ring : the Stranger he said , This must be repaid ; I'll give you as good as you bring : So long as I am able to handle my staff , with a heigh , etc To die in your debt , Friend , I scorn : then to it both goes , and follow'd their blows , As if they'd been thrashing of corn . The Stranger gave Robin a crack on the crown , with a heigh , etc Which caused the blood to appear ; then Robin enrag [ ' ] worser , more fiercely engag'd , And follow'd his blows more severe ; So thick and so fast he did lay it on him , with a heigh , etc With passionate fury and eyre , at every stroke he made him to smoke , As if he had been all on a fire . O then into a fury the Stranger he grew , with a heigh , etc And gave him a damnable look , and with it a blow , that laid him full low , And tumbl'd him into the brook . I prithee , good Fellow , Oh where art thou now ? with a heigh , etc The Stranger in laugher he cry'd : quoth bold Robin Hood , Good faith in the flood , And floating along with the tide . I needs must acknowledge thou art a brave Soul with a heigh , etc With thee I'll no longer contend ; for needs must I say , thou hast god the day , Our battle shall be at and end . Then , then to the bank he did presently wade , with a heigh , etc And pull [ ' ] worser himself out by a thorn ; which done , at the last , he blow'd a loud blast Straitways on his fine bugle-horn : The echo of which through the valleys did fly , with a heigh , etc At which his stout Bowmen appear'd , all clothed in green , most gay to be seen , So up to their Master they steered : Oh what's the matter ? quoth William Stuteley ; with a heigh , etc Good Master , you are wet to the shin ? No matter , quoth he , the Lad which you see , In fighting he tumbl'd me in . He shall not go scot free , the others reply'd , with a heigh , etc So straight they were seizing him there , to duck him likewise ; but Robin Hood cries , He is a stout Fellow , forbear . There's no one shall wrong thee , Friend , be not afraid , with a heigh , etc These Bowmen upon me do wait ; there's threescore and nine ; if thou wilt be mine , Thou shalt have my livery strait , And other accoutrements fit for my Train : with a heigh , etc Speak up , jolly Blade , ne'r fear , I'll reach thee also the use of the bow , To shoot at the fat fallow-deer . O here is my hand , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc I'll serve you with all my whole heart ; my name is John Little , a Man of good mettle , Ne'r doubt me , for I'll play my part . His name shall be alter'd , quoth William Stuteley , with a heigh , etc And I will his Godfather be ; prepare then a feast , and none of the least , For we will be merry , quoth he . They presently fetch'd in a brace of fat does , with a heigh , etc With humming strong liquour likewise ; they lov'd what was good : so in the green wood This pretty sweet Babe they baptise . He was , I must tell you , but seven foot high , with a heigh , etc And may be and ell in the waste ; a pretty sweet Lad ; much feasting they had : Bold Robin the Christ'ning grac'd , With all his Bowmen , which stood in a ring ; with a heigh , etc And were of the Nottingham Breed ; brave Stuteley comes then , with seven Yeomen , And did in this manner proceed : This Infant was called John Little , quoth he , with a heigh , etc Which name shall be changed anon , the words we'll transpose , so wherever he goes , His name shall be call'd Little John. They all with a shout made the elements ring , with a heigh , etc So soon as this Office was o're , to feasting they went with true merriment , And tipl'd strong liquour gallore . Then Robin he took the pretty sweet Babe , with a heigh , etc And cloath'd him from top to the toe , in garments of green , most gay to be seen , And gave him a curtous long bow . Thou shalt be and Archer as well as the best , with a heigh , etc And range in the green wood with us , where we'll not want gold , nor silver , behold , While Bishops have ought in their purse . We'll live here like Esquires or Lords of Renown , with a heigh , etc Without e're a foot of free land ; we feast on good cheer , with wine , ale and beer , And ev'ry thing at our command . Then music and dancing did finish the day , with a heigh , etc At length when the sun waxed low , then all the whole Train the grove did refrain , And unto their caves they did go . And so ever after , as long as he liv'd , with a heigh down , down and a down , Although he was proper and tall , yet nevertheless , the truth to express , Still Little John they did him call . LONDON : Printed by and for W. Onley , and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . Robin Hood and Little John ; BEING And Account of their first Meeting , their fierce Encounter and Conquest . To which is added , Their friendly Agreement , and how he came to be call'd Little John. To the Tune of , Arthur a Bland . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WHen Robin Hood was about twenty years old , with a heigh down , down and a down , He happen'd to meet Little John , a jolly brisk Blade , right fit for the trade , For he was a lusty young Man. Though he was call'd Little , his limbs they were large , with a heigh , etc And his stature was seven foot high ; wherever he came , they quak'd at his name , For soon he wou'd make them to fly . How they came acquainted , I'll tell you in brief , with a heigh , etc If you will but listen a while ; for this very jest , among all the rest , I think it may cause you to smile : Bold Robin Hood said to his jolly Bowmen , with a heigh , etc Pray tarry you here in this grove , and see that you all , observe well my call , While through the forest I rove . We have had no sport for these fourteen long days , with a heigh , etc Therefore now abroad will I go ; now should I be beatrice , and cannot retreat , My horn I will presently blow . Then did he shake hands with his merry Men all , with a heigh , etc And bid them at present goodby ; then as near a brook his journey he took , A Stranger he chanc'd to espy : They happen'd to meet on a long narrow bridge , with a heigh , etc And neither of them wou'd give way ; quoth bold Robin Hood , and sturdily stood , I'll show you right Nottingham play ; With that from his quiver and arrow he drew , with a heigh , etc A broad arrow with a goosewing : the Stranger reply'd , I'll licker thy hide , If thou offer to touch the string . Quoth bold Robin Hood , Thou do'st prate like and Ass , with a heigh , etc For were I to bend but my bow , I could send a dart quite through thy proud heart , Before thou could'st strike me one blow . You talk like a Coward , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc Well arm'd with a long bow you stand , to shoot at my breast , while I , I protest , Have nought but a staff in my hand . The name of a Coward , quoth Robin , I scorn , with a heigh , etc Wherefore my long bow I'll lay by , and now for thy sake a staff I will take , The truth of thy Manhood to try . Then Robin Hood stepped to a thicket of trees , with a heigh , etc And chosen him a staff of ground oak ; now this being done , away he did run To the Stranger , and merrily spoke : Lo , see my staff , it is lusty and tough , with a heigh , etc Now here on the bridge we will play ; whoever falls in , the other shall win The battle , and so we'll away . With all my whole heart to thy humour I yield , with a heigh , etc I scorn in the least to give ou this said , they fell to 't without more dispute , And their staffs they did flourish about . And first Robin he gave the Stranger a bang , with a heigh , etc So hard that it made his bones ring : the Stranger he said , This must be repaid ; I'll give you as good as you bring : So long as I am able to handle my staff , with a heigh , etc To die in your debt , Friend , I scorn : then to it both goes , and follow'd their blows , As if they'd been thrashing of corn . The Stranger gave Robin a crack on the crown , with a heigh , etc Which caused the blood to appear ; then Robin enrag [ ' ] worser , more fiercely engag'd , And follow'd his blows more severe ; So thick and so fast he did lay it on him , with a heigh , etc With passionate fury and eyre , at every stroke he made him to smoke , As if he had been all on a fire . O then into a fury the Stranger he grew , with a heigh , etc And gave him a damnable look , and with it a blow , that laid him full low , And tumbl'd him into the brook . I prithee , good Fellow , Oh where art thou now ? with a heigh , etc The Stranger in laugher he cry'd : quoth bold Robin Hood , Good faith in the flood , And floating along with the tide . I needs must acknowledge thou art a brave Soul with a heigh , etc With thee I'll no longer contend ; for needs must I say , thou hast god the day , Our battle shall be at and end . Then , then to the bank he did presently wade , with a heigh , etc And pull [ ' ] worser himself out by a thorn ; which done , at the last , he blow'd a loud blast Straitways on his fine bugle-horn : The echo of which through the valleys did fly , with a heigh , etc At which his stout Bowmen appear'd , all clothed in green , most gay to be seen , So up to their Master they steered : Oh what's the matter ? quoth William Stuteley ; with a heigh , etc Good Master , you are wet to the shin ? No matter , quoth he , the Lad which you see , In fighting he tumbl'd me in . He shall not go scot free , the others reply'd , with a heigh , etc So straight they were seizing him there , to duck him likewise ; but Robin Hood cries , He is a stout Fellow , forbear . There's no one shall wrong thee , Friend , be not afraid , with a heigh , etc These Bowmen upon me do wait ; there's threescore and nine ; if thou wilt be mine , Thou shalt have my livery strait , And other accoutrements fit for my Train : with a heigh , etc Speak up , jolly Blade , ne'r fear , I'll reach thee also the use of the bow , To shoot at the fat fallow-deer . O here is my hand , the Stranger reply'd , with a heigh , etc I'll serve you with all my whole heart ; my name is John Little , a Man of good mettle , Ne'r doubt me , for I'll play my part . His name shall be alter'd , quoth William Stuteley , with a heigh , etc And I will his Godfather be ; prepare then a feast , and none of the least , For we will be merry , quoth he . They presently fetch'd in a brace of fat does , with a heigh , etc With humming strong liquour likewise ; they lov'd what was good : so in the green wood This pretty sweet Babe they baptise . He was , I must tell you , but seven foot high , with a heigh , etc And may be and ell in the waste ; a pretty sweet Lad ; much feasting they had : Bold Robin the Christ'ning grac'd , With all his Bowmen , which stood in a ring ; with a heigh , etc And were of the Nottingham Breed ; brave Stuteley comes then , with seven Yeomen , And did in this manner proceed : This Infant was called John Little , quoth he , with a heigh , etc Which name shall be changed anon , the words we'll transpose , so wherever he goes , His name shall be call'd Little John. They all with a shout made the elements ring , with a heigh , etc So soon as this Office was o're , to feasting they went with true merriment , And tipl'd strong liquour gallore . Then Robin he took the pretty sweet Babe , with a heigh , etc And cloath'd him from top to the toe , in garments of green , most gay to be seen , And gave him a curtous long bow . Thou shalt be and Archer as well as the best , with a heigh , etc And range in the green wood with us , where we'll not want gold , nor silver , behold , While Bishops have ought in their purse . We'll live here like Esquires or Lords of Renown , with a heigh , etc Without e're a foot of free land ; we feast on good cheer , with wine , ale and beer , And ev'ry thing at our command . Then music and dancing did finish the day , with a heigh , etc At length when the sun waxed low , then all the whole Train the grove did refrain , And unto their caves they did go . And so ever after , as long as he liv'd , with a heigh down , down and a down , Although he was proper and tall , yet nevertheless , the truth to express , Still Little John they did him call . LONDON : Printed by and for W. Onley , and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 