THE OLD WOMAN's RESOLUTION : OR , A Dialogue betwixt Jack Drumbold and his Old Granny Gregory , who Vow'd she would Marry though Fourscore years and Ten because she would Shoe her Horse round . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too : Licensed according to Order . THere was and old Woman then , who had a great mind to Wed , Who was full Fourscore years and Ten , and had not a Tooth in her Head. With Age she does grunt and groan , each Night as she lies in Bed , But yet a Husband's all her tone , although not a Tooth in her Head. She has a Grandson call'd Jack , by whom she's often led : Quoth he , Do you a Husband lack , and yet not a Tooth in your Head ? Why Sirrah , she then reply'd , My Cheeks they are Crimson Read , Therefore I hope to be a Bride , I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Dear Granny , quoth Jack , not so , your Face is like Winter dead , Likewise your Hair's as white as Snow , and not a good Tooth in your Head. The Old Woman told him straight , she'd Cuff him for what he'd said , I must and will enjoy a Mate , I have a Colt's Tooth in my Had. Why Granny , quoth he , you're old , and hardly can crawl to Bed , Your Limbs is stiff , your Blood is cold , and not a good Tooth in your Head. Her Crutch straight she made him feel , and likewise in a Passion said , I am as nimble as and Eel , and have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. Good Granny , be not in a heat , for you are too old to Wed ; Pray think upon a Winding-sheet , you han't a good Tooth in your Head. Why Sirrah , I amn't Fivescore , and therefore I vow to Wed , What! would you have me play the Whore ? I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Quoth Jack , Your alluring Charms , must needs please a Man in Bed , To have cold Death lie in his Arms , you han't a good Tooth in your Head. Quoth she , Are you Saucy still ? I' faith I will strike you dead ; But Rascal now say what you will I have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. Sometime I am dull by chance , but straight I am Cherry-red , A Cogue will make me skip and dance , I have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. I have had Three honest Men , which now are laid under Ground , And tho' I am Fourscore and ten , I reckon too shoe my Horse round , Why then , said her Grandson Jack , I will in a Bound be bound , If you a Hazle-Nut can crack , that then you shall shoe your Horse round . Then she to her Trumps was put , but straight a quere way she found For with her Crutch she crack'd the Nut , because she would shoe her Horse round . The Old Woman wone the Day , she caper'd and iuch from Ground , I'll have a Husband by my Faith , and then I shall shoe my Horse round . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE OLD WOMAN's RESOLUTION : OR , A Dialogue betwixt Jack Drumbold and his Old Granny Gregory , who Vow'd she would Marry though Fourscore years and Ten because she would Shoe her Horse round . To the Tune of I marry and thank you too : Licensed according to Order . THere was and old Woman then , who had a great mind to Wed , Who was full Fourscore years and Ten , and had not a Tooth in her Head. With Age she does grunt and groan , each Night as she lies in Bed , But yet a Husband's all her tone , although not a Tooth in her Head. She has a Grandson call'd Jack , by whom she's often led : Quoth he , Do you a Husband lack , and yet not a Tooth in your Head ? Why Sirrah , she then reply'd , My Cheeks they are Crimson Read , Therefore I hope to be a Bride , I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Dear Granny , quoth Jack , not so , your Face is like Winter dead , Likewise your Hair's as white as Snow , and not a good Tooth in your Head. The Old Woman told him straight , she'd Cuff him for what he'd said , I must and will enjoy a Mate , I have a Colt's Tooth in my Had. Why Granny , quoth he , you're old , and hardly can crawl to Bed , Your Limbs is stiff , your Blood is cold , and not a good Tooth in your Head. Her Crutch straight she made him feel , and likewise in a Passion said , I am as nimble as and Eel , and have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. Good Granny , be not in a heat , for you are too old to Wed ; Pray think upon a Winding-sheet , you han't a good Tooth in your Head. Why Sirrah , I amn't Fivescore , and therefore I vow to Wed , What! would you have me play the Whore ? I have a Colt's Tooth in my head . Quoth Jack , Your alluring Charms , must needs please a Man in Bed , To have cold Death lie in his Arms , you han't a good Tooth in your Head. Quoth she , Are you Saucy still ? I' faith I will strike you dead ; But Rascal now say what you will I have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. Sometime I am dull by chance , but straight I am Cherry-red , A Cogue will make me skip and dance , I have a Colt's Tooth in my Head. I have had Three honest Men , which now are laid under Ground , And tho' I am Fourscore and ten , I reckon too shoe my Horse round , Why then , said her Grandson Jack , I will in a Bound be bound , If you a Hazle-Nut can crack , that then you shall shoe your Horse round . Then she to her Trumps was put , but straight a quere way she found For with her Crutch she crack'd the Nut , because she would shoe her Horse round . The Old Woman wone the Day , she caper'd and iuch from Ground , I'll have a Husband by my Faith , and then I shall shoe my Horse round . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 