A Conscionable Couple : OR , [ TO ] he valiant Resolution of a Youngman and a Maid , , That have left all their Kindred , as true folks have said : It for their Religion and good Conscience sake , That they forsook England , a Voyage to take . These two loving Protestants kindly together , Are gone to seek Fortune's , there's no man knows whither . To a curious new Tune , Or , The Faithful Friend . THis does make the world to wonder , That thou and I must part asunder ; Parting from thee soar does grieve me , Oh so loath I am to leave thee : Leave thee , leave thee , I'll not leave thee , Oh so loath I am to leave thee . I love thee dear , yet dare not show it , Let not thy Friends nor Father know it , The joys and comforts late abounded ; Now is my heart with sorrows w [ oh ] undead . Parting from thee soar does grieve me , Oh how loath I am to leave thee . Thy amorous looks makes me admire , And set my senses all on fire : I would forego all earthly treasure , To spend my time with thee in pleasure : But we must part , which soar does grieve me , Oh how loath am I to leave thee . Thou in mine eye art such a creature , The like was never fram'd by Nature : Thy sweet behaviour and thy carriage , Loves Queen by no means can disparage , But we must part , which soar does grieve me , Oh how loath am I to leave thee ! Cruel Fortune , I must curse thee , 'Cause thy false designs does force me ; Thus to go and leave my True love , Farewell , ten thousands times adieu Love We needs must part , that soar does grieve me , Oh how loath I am to leave thee ! Mark these words which here are spoken , This gold Ring keep for a token ; And when I am furthest from thee , Prithee Sweetheart think upon me , Part we must , which soar does grieve me , Oh how loath I am to leave thee ! 'Tis long of England's strange Division And the altering of Religion : That I am expos'd to danger , And to travel like a stranger ; This of all the rest does grieve me , That I am inforc'd to leave thee . My dear Love , when we are parted I shall be so heavy-hearted , That no joys I shall recover , Therefore as thou art my Lover , Prithee Sweetheart take me to thee , Say but the word , and I'll go with thee . Let Father frown , and Mother chide me , I'le go with thee whatever be [ ? ] idem me ; If it were through fire and water , Led the way , I [ ' ] le follow after : I prithee Sweetheart take me to thee , Say but the word , and I'll go with thee . If to the Seas thou make thy venture , I in the Ship will also enter : Or if thou or the Shore wilt tarry , I the selfsame m [ i ] and do carry , So thou vouchsafe to take me to thee , Speak but the word , and I'll go with thee . Or if thou wilt be a Soldier , Place a Musket on my shoulder : Put me on some men apparel , I will stately fight thy quarrel ; I fear not what man can do to me , Speak but the word and I'll go with thee . Neither Sword nor Persecution Shall break off my Resolution : Though all the world forsake thee For my Comrode I will take thee ; If thou wilt but take me to thee , Speak the word , and I'll go with thee . Farewell Father , farewell Mother , Farewell Sister , farewell Brother , Farewell Friends , and farewell Kindred , I from my Love will not be hindered ; Now prithee Sweet heart take me to thee Hap well or woe , I'll now go with thee . Since thou stand'st firm to th' old Religion : Myself am of the same condition ; England wee'l leave , and march together , No earthly creature shall know whither ; Conscience moves me to come to thee , Thou hast spoke Love , I'll go with thee . Finis . London , Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . A Conscionable Couple : OR , [ TO ] he valiant Resolution of a Youngman and a Maid , , That have left all their Kindred , as true folks have said : It for their Religion and good Conscience sake , That they forsook England , a Voyage to take . These two loving Protestants kindly together , Are gone to seek Fortune's , there's no man knows whither . To a curious new Tune , Or , The Faithful Friend . THis does make the world to wonder , That thou and I must part asunder ; Parting from thee soar does grieve me , Oh so loath I am to leave thee : Leave thee , leave thee , I'll not leave thee , Oh so loath I am to leave thee . I love thee dear , yet dare not show it , Let not thy Friends nor Father know it , The joys and comforts late abounded ; Now is my heart with sorrows w [ oh ] undead . Parting from thee soar does grieve me , Oh how loath I am to leave thee . Thy amorous looks makes me admire , And set my senses all on fire : I would forego all earthly treasure , To spend my time with thee in pleasure : But we must part , which soar does grieve me , Oh how loath am I to leave thee . Thou in mine eye art such a creature , The like was never fram'd by Nature : Thy sweet behaviour and thy carriage , Loves Queen by no means can disparage , But we must part , which soar does grieve me , Oh how loath am I to leave thee ! Cruel Fortune , I must curse thee , 'Cause thy false designs does force me ; Thus to go and leave my True love , Farewell , ten thousands times adieu Love We needs must part , that soar does grieve me , Oh how loath I am to leave thee ! Mark these words which here are spoken , This gold Ring keep for a token ; And when I am furthest from thee , Prithee Sweetheart think upon me , Part we must , which soar does grieve me , Oh how loath I am to leave thee ! 'Tis long of England's strange Division And the altering of Religion : That I am expos'd to danger , And to travel like a stranger ; This of all the rest does grieve me , That I am inforc'd to leave thee . My dear Love , when we are parted I shall be so heavy-hearted , That no joys I shall recover , Therefore as thou art my Lover , Prithee Sweetheart take me to thee , Say but the word , and I'll go with thee . Let Father frown , and Mother chide me , I'le go with thee whatever be [ ? ] idem me ; If it were through fire and water , Led the way , I [ ' ] le follow after : I prithee Sweetheart take me to thee , Say but the word , and I'll go with thee . If to the Seas thou make thy venture , I in the Ship will also enter : Or if thou or the Shore wilt tarry , I the selfsame m [ i ] and do carry , So thou vouchsafe to take me to thee , Speak but the word , and I'll go with thee . Or if thou wilt be a Soldier , Place a Musket on my shoulder : Put me on some men apparel , I will stately fight thy quarrel ; I fear not what man can do to me , Speak but the word and I'll go with thee . Neither Sword nor Persecution Shall break off my Resolution : Though all the world forsake thee For my Comrode I will take thee ; If thou wilt but take me to thee , Speak the word , and I'll go with thee . Farewell Father , farewell Mother , Farewell Sister , farewell Brother , Farewell Friends , and farewell Kindred , I from my Love will not be hindered ; Now prithee Sweet heart take me to thee Hap well or woe , I'll now go with thee . Since thou stand'st firm to th' old Religion : Myself am of the same condition ; England wee'l leave , and march together , No earthly creature shall know whither ; Conscience moves me to come to thee , Thou hast spoke Love , I'll go with thee . Finis . London , Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 