Robin Hood's Deligh OR , A merry Combat fought against Robin Hood , little John and Will . Scarlet , and three stout Keepers in Sherwood Forest . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and Queen Katherine , or , Robin Hood and the Shepherd . THer's some will talk of Lords and Knights down a down a down , And some of Yeomen good , But I will tell you of Will . Scarlet , Little John and Robin Hood . They were Outlaws , as 'tis well known , down a etc And men of a noble blood ; And many a time was their valour shown In the Forest of merry Sherwood . Upon a time it chanced so , down a etc As Robin would have it be , They all three would a walking go , Some pastime for to see . And as they walked the Forest along , down a etc Upon a Midsummer day , There was he aware of three Foresters Clad all in green array . With brave long Falchions by their sides , down a etc And Forrest-Bills in hand , They call'd aloud to those Outlaws And charged them to stand . Why who are you , cry'd bold Robin , down a etc That speaks so boldly here ? We three belong to King Henry , And are Keepers of his Deer . THE Devil thou art said Robin Hood , down a etc I am sure it is not so : We be Keepers in this Forest , And that you soon shall know . Your Coats of green lay on the ground , down a etc And so will we all three , And take your swords and bucklers round , And try the Victory . We be content the Keepers said , down a etc We be three and no less , Then why should we of you be afraid , And we never did transgress . Why if you be the Keepers in this forest , down a etc Then we be three Rangers good , And we'l make you know before you do go You met with bold Robin Hood . We be content thou bold Outlaw , down a etc Our valour here to try , And will make you know before we go , We will fight before we will fly . Then come draw your swords you bold Outlaws , down a etc And no longer stand to prate , But let us try it out with blows , For Cowards we do hate . Here is one of us for Will . Scarlet , down a etc And another for little John , And I my self for Robin Hood , Because he is stout and strong . So they fell to it full hardy and soar , down a etc It was on a Midsummers day , From eight a clock till two and past , They all shew'd gallant play . There Robin and Will . and little John , down a etc They fought most manfully , Till all their wind was spend and gone , Then Robin aloud did cry . O hold , Oh hold , cries bold Robin , down a etc I see you be stout men , Let me blow one blast with my beagle horn , Then i'le fight with you again . That bargain is to make bold Robin Hood , down a etc Therefore we it deny : Though a blast upon thy beagle horn Cannot make us fight nor fly . Therefore fallen on or else be gone , down a etc And yield to us the day , It shall never be said that we were afraid Of thee nor thy Yeomen gay . If that it be so , cries bold Robin , down a etc Let me but know your names , And in the Forest of merry Sherwood I shall extol your Fame's . And with our names one of them said , down a etc What hast thou here to do ? Except that thou will fight it out , Our names thou shalt not know . We will fight no more , says bold Robin , down a etc You be men of valour stout , Come and go with me to Nottingham , And there we will fight it out . With a Butt of Sack we will bang it out , down a etc To see who wins the day , And for the cost make you no doubt , I have gold and money to pay . And ever hereafter so long as we live , down a etc We all will brothers be , For I love those men with heart and hand , That will fight and never flee . So a way they went to Nottingham , down a etc With Sack to make amends , For three days space they wine did chase , And drank themselves good friends , down a down a down a down . Printed for William Thackery at the Angel in Duck lane . Robin Hood's Deligh OR , A merry Combat fought against Robin Hood , little John and Will . Scarlet , and three stout Keepers in Sherwood Forest . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and Queen Katherine , or , Robin Hood and the Shepherd . THer's some will talk of Lords and Knights down a down a down , And some of Yeomen good , But I will tell you of Will . Scarlet , Little John and Robin Hood . They were Outlaws , as 'tis well known , down a etc And men of a noble blood ; And many a time was their valour shown In the Forest of merry Sherwood . Upon a time it chanced so , down a etc As Robin would have it be , They all three would a walking go , Some pastime for to see . And as they walked the Forest along , down a etc Upon a Midsummer day , There was he aware of three Foresters Clad all in green array . With brave long Falchions by their sides , down a etc And Forrest-Bills in hand , They call'd aloud to those Outlaws And charged them to stand . Why who are you , cry'd bold Robin , down a etc That speaks so boldly here ? We three belong to King Henry , And are Keepers of his Deer . THE Devil thou art said Robin Hood , down a etc I am sure it is not so : We be Keepers in this Forest , And that you soon shall know . Your Coats of green lay on the ground , down a etc And so will we all three , And take your swords and bucklers round , And try the Victory . We be content the Keepers said , down a etc We be three and no less , Then why should we of you be afraid , And we never did transgress . Why if you be the Keepers in this forest , down a etc Then we be three Rangers good , And we'l make you know before you do go You met with bold Robin Hood . We be content thou bold Outlaw , down a etc Our valour here to try , And will make you know before we go , We will fight before we will fly . Then come draw your swords you bold Outlaws , down a etc And no longer stand to prate , But let us try it out with blows , For Cowards we do hate . Here is one of us for Will . Scarlet , down a etc And another for little John , And I my self for Robin Hood , Because he is stout and strong . So they fell to it full hardy and soar , down a etc It was on a Midsummers day , From eight a clock till two and past , They all shew'd gallant play . There Robin and Will . and little John , down a etc They fought most manfully , Till all their wind was spend and gone , Then Robin aloud did cry . O hold , Oh hold , cries bold Robin , down a etc I see you be stout men , Let me blow one blast with my beagle horn , Then i'le fight with you again . That bargain is to make bold Robin Hood , down a etc Therefore we it deny : Though a blast upon thy beagle horn Cannot make us fight nor fly . Therefore fallen on or else be gone , down a etc And yield to us the day , It shall never be said that we were afraid Of thee nor thy Yeomen gay . If that it be so , cries bold Robin , down a etc Let me but know your names , And in the Forest of merry Sherwood I shall extol your Fame's . And with our names one of them said , down a etc What hast thou here to do ? Except that thou will fight it out , Our names thou shalt not know . We will fight no more , says bold Robin , down a etc You be men of valour stout , Come and go with me to Nottingham , And there we will fight it out . With a Butt of Sack we will bang it out , down a etc To see who wins the day , And for the cost make you no doubt , I have gold and money to pay . And ever hereafter so long as we live , down a etc We all will brothers be , For I love those men with heart and hand , That will fight and never flee . So a way they went to Nottingham , down a etc With Sack to make amends , For three days space they wine did chase , And drank themselves good friends , down a down a down a down . Printed for William Thackery at the Angel in Duck lane . 