A MEDITATION ON THE PASSION . THis is the day where I.N. R . I.ght well content , Our blessed SAVIOUR did himself present , A LIVING SACRIFICE our souls to free From sin , death , hell , to live eternally . Awake my soul THIS DAY SHALL sacred be With Hymns and Songs To his deer memory ; Whose dolorous DeaTH our angry God appeas'd , And Lord remember nOw If thou be pleas'd , For whom he suffered thUs , for whom These wounds By which his gory Blood so muCH abounds , For men , vile me , heart rEnding stRIpes he boar With thorns his head , With nails hiS flesh was tore . His lovely , LillIe hands were sTretched wide , To welcome death That entered at his side . As streams of blood gushed forth and thus did dure The worst that wrath or Malice could procure . LORD , into pity turn thine angry brow , Say to my soul I am contented now . His death , thy life , his wouNdes , thy balm , shall be ; His painful passion Pleads so powerfully . O King , oh Christ , thAt didst thy life bestow For sinful wretches , gRant my life may show Such living fruits of zeAle , of faith , of love , To GOD , to gooDnesse , and the life above ; Then loving , servIng , lauding thee at last , I may of ParadiCE sweet JESUS taste . This most excellent invention was done by and unknown Author , and for the worthiness of it , I thought it pity to let it be concealed or smothered in silence ; for which cause it is Printed , and I have annexed to it these following Verses . Upon the good Thief . Let no man despair , for , one was saved . HE that had long been a notorious Thief , Was in Repentance and in Faith so brief , That at the point of Death , in little space He gained forgiveness by our Saviours grace : In death he kept Christ Jesus company , Expressing Love , Faith , Hope , and Charity . By Love and Faith , he zealously believ'd His sins were pardon'd , and his soul repriev'd : And his fixed Hope did full assurance gain Of free remission from eternal pain . He prayed , Lord I thy Kingdom have forgotten , Yet when thou thither comest forget me not But though I still have ran astray from thee , Yet ( in thy mercy ) Lord remember me . Upon our blessed Saviour . Death brings life . HE that ( of nothing ) everything did frame , Was pleas'd to change his glory for our shame ; He sinless was , yet sin for us was made , And our three foes , since , Death , and Hell invade . Ther's nothing dearer since the world began To God , then is the soul and corpse of man ; When leprosy of sin had us over spread , That all were unto Satan forfeited , Then Gods blessed Son came down , and on the Cross He paid our ransoms , and redeem'd our loss . And as unto the blessed Thief he said , ( When he to him with true contrition prayed ) He says to all that do repent their vice That they shall be with him in Paradise . Upon the bad Thief . Let no man presume , for , but one was sa - ved . HE that would live accursed , accursed would die , Through want of faith his Saviour to apply : It was the bodies death he fear'd to die , Not soul and bodies death eternally . A longer , not a better life to have He wish'd , when he bade Christ his life to save . This wicked Thief did as the Jewes had done , Who said ( if he be Gods eternal Son ) Let him come down , now from the Cross , and we Will strait believe in him , that it is He. Ev'n so this Thief , with damned doubt said thus If thou be'st Christ , then save thy self and us . But ten times happy had he been I say , If that same doubtful IF had been away . JO . TAILOR . Printed at London by THOMAS HARPER . 1630. A MEDITATION ON THE PASSION . THis is the day where I.N. R . I.ght well content , Our blessed SAVIOUR did himself present , A LIVING SACRIFICE our souls to free From sin , death , hell , to live eternally . Awake my soul THIS DAY SHALL sacred be With Hymns and Songs To his deer memory ; Whose dolorous DeaTH our angry God appeas'd , And Lord remember nOw If thou be pleas'd , For whom he suffered thUs , for whom These wounds By which his gory Blood so muCH abounds , For men , vile me , heart rEnding stRIpes he boar With thorns his head , With nails hiS flesh was tore . His lovely , LillIe hands were sTretched wide , To welcome death That entered at his side . As streams of blood gushed forth and thus did dure The worst that wrath or Malice could procure . LORD , into pity turn thine angry brow , Say to my soul I am contented now . His death , thy life , his wouNdes , thy balm , shall be ; His painful passion Pleads so powerfully . O King , oh Christ , thAt didst thy life bestow For sinful wretches , gRant my life may show Such living fruits of zeAle , of faith , of love , To GOD , to gooDnesse , and the life above ; Then loving , servIng , lauding thee at last , I may of ParadiCE sweet JESUS taste . This most excellent invention was done by and unknown Author , and for the worthiness of it , I thought it pity to let it be concealed or smothered in silence ; for which cause it is Printed , and I have annexed to it these following Verses . Upon the good Thief . Let no man despair , for , one was saved . HE that had long been a notorious Thief , Was in Repentance and in Faith so brief , That at the point of Death , in little space He gained forgiveness by our Saviours grace : In death he kept Christ Jesus company , Expressing Love , Faith , Hope , and Charity . By Love and Faith , he zealously believ'd His sins were pardon'd , and his soul repriev'd : And his fixed Hope did full assurance gain Of free remission from eternal pain . He prayed , Lord I thy Kingdom have forgotten , Yet when thou thither comest forget me not But though I still have ran astray from thee , Yet ( in thy mercy ) Lord remember me . Upon our blessed Saviour . Death brings life . HE that ( of nothing ) everything did frame , Was pleas'd to change his glory for our shame ; He sinless was , yet sin for us was made , And our three foes , since , Death , and Hell invade . Ther's nothing dearer since the world began To God , then is the soul and corpse of man ; When leprosy of sin had us over spread , That all were unto Satan forfeited , Then Gods blessed Son came down , and on the Cross He paid our ransoms , and redeem'd our loss . And as unto the blessed Thief he said , ( When he to him with true contrition prayed ) He says to all that do repent their vice That they shall be with him in Paradise . Upon the bad Thief . Let no man presume , for , but one was sa - ved . HE that would live accursed , accursed would die , Through want of faith his Saviour to apply : It was the bodies death he fear'd to die , Not soul and bodies death eternally . A longer , not a better life to have He wish'd , when he bade Christ his life to save . This wicked Thief did as the Jewes had done , Who said ( if he be Gods eternal Son ) Let him come down , now from the Cross , and we Will strait believe in him , that it is He. Ev'n so this Thief , with damned doubt said thus If thou be'st Christ , then save thy self and us . But ten times happy had he been I say , If that same doubtful IF had been away . JO . TAILOR . Printed at London by THOMAS HARPER . 1630. 