The Whiggish Poet's Recan - tation : With and Account of his Misfortune in his counterfeit Lawyers Gown . When that I in a Lawyers Gown , Was god among the Lawyers ; I in my chewce was quickly found , I look'd more like a Sawyer . To the Tune of , No Ignoramus Juries now . THis is my Reformation , and perfect Recantation , Which shall appear , both far and near , through all the Land and Nation . No Whining , nor Pining , nor Loyalty declining ; But let the Law , keep Whiggs in Awe , and check their damn'd designing . I writ in praise of Tony , in short it was for Money ; But when I see , their Treachery , I'de be no more their Crony . No whining , nor pining , etc I was a noble Spender , when Tony liv'd in Splendour , I us'd to write , The Whiggs delight ; to me much Fame did render . No whining , nor pining , etc And I was mighty handy , in filling out the Brandy ; I'de Smoke and funk , till I was drunk , few whiggs could go beyond me . No whining , nor pining , etc Those days Sir , while they lasted , I had Sack when I ask't i When I was drunk they sent me home safe in a Porters Basket . No whining , nor pining , etc When Russel was Arraigned , a Lawyers Gown I gained ; I ask'd the Case , to my disgrace , and all my Credit stained . No whining , nor pining , etc With Lawyers I Converced , but quickly was disgraced ; I was undone , and forc'd to run , and dare not stand to face it . No whining , nor pining , etc Ambition so abounded , and I with shame surrounded : I with my Gown , was tumbled down , and all my Wits confounded . No whining , nor pining , etc This did eclipse my glory , a sad and dismal Story ; The Rabble I , will now defy , and turn a Loyal Tory. No whining , nor pining , etc God Bless great CHARLES and Jemmy , and all the whole Retinue , With Peacc and Love , down from Above , with happy Days and many . No whining , nor pining , nor Loyalty declining ; But let the Law , keep Whiggs in Awe , and check their damn'd designing . London , Printed for M. Smelled , in the Year , 1684. The Whiggish Poet's Recan - tation : With and Account of his Misfortune in his counterfeit Lawyers Gown . When that I in a Lawyers Gown , Was god among the Lawyers ; I in my chewce was quickly found , I look'd more like a Sawyer . To the Tune of , No Ignoramus Juries now . THis is my Reformation , and perfect Recantation , Which shall appear , both far and near , through all the Land and Nation . No Whining , nor Pining , nor Loyalty declining ; But let the Law , keep Whiggs in Awe , and check their damn'd designing . I writ in praise of Tony , in short it was for Money ; But when I see , their Treachery , I'de be no more their Crony . No whining , nor pining , etc I was a noble Spender , when Tony liv'd in Splendour , I us'd to write , The Whiggs delight ; to me much Fame did render . No whining , nor pining , etc And I was mighty handy , in filling out the Brandy ; I'de Smoke and funk , till I was drunk , few whiggs could go beyond me . No whining , nor pining , etc Those days Sir , while they lasted , I had Sack when I ask't i When I was drunk they sent me home safe in a Porters Basket . No whining , nor pining , etc When Russel was Arraigned , a Lawyers Gown I gained ; I ask'd the Case , to my disgrace , and all my Credit stained . No whining , nor pining , etc With Lawyers I Converced , but quickly was disgraced ; I was undone , and forc'd to run , and dare not stand to face it . No whining , nor pining , etc Ambition so abounded , and I with shame surrounded : I with my Gown , was tumbled down , and all my Wits confounded . No whining , nor pining , etc This did eclipse my glory , a sad and dismal Story ; The Rabble I , will now defy , and turn a Loyal Tory. No whining , nor pining , etc God Bless great CHARLES and Jemmy , and all the whole Retinue , With Peacc and Love , down from Above , with happy Days and many . No whining , nor pining , nor Loyalty declining ; But let the Law , keep Whiggs in Awe , and check their damn'd designing . London , Printed for M. Smelled , in the Year , 1684. 