Solomons Sacrifice . With his Prayer in Gibeon ; And how God appeared to him in a Vision , and answered his Request . To a new Tune . OF all the Kings in Israel that reigned long ago ; I do remember very well that Chronicles does show That when it fell to Solomon , He proved such a Paragon , As never there was any one , as after you shall know . For when he came to be a King , He feared God in everything ; In Sacrifice and worshipping great cost he did bestow ; There was a place in Israel , Call'd Gibeon at this day ; And thither went King Solomon to Sacrifice and pray . But God did in a Vision Appear unto King Solomon While he was yet in Gibeon , and thus to him did say : Because of thy Humility Ask what thou wilt ( Oh King ) of me Oh speak that I may give it thee before thou go'st away . Then Solomon thus answered to thee be always praise ; For that as thou hast promised in our forefathers days : Since that as thou hast promised not to leave their Table unfurnished But to leave it garnished to them that sees thy ways . Thy holy Wisdom grant to me thy holy Law to understand And understanding heart to see the judgements of each Land : That I may well Govern the same As justice rightly ought to frame To the Glory of his name with mercy in my hand . Then God who took it in good part what Solomon had said ; Because it was so in his heart to ask as he had pray'd ; He said I will give unto thee As never none the like shall be Either before or after thee therefore be not afraid . I will give thee Wisdom great and Treasure passing store ; Now sitting on thy Father's seat as no King had before ; With that arose King So [ l ] omon And went away to Gibeon To guide the charge he took upon as no King took before . Then after that in Israel He reigned long their King full well As all the Holy Books can tell with great increase and store . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . Solomons Sacrifice . With his Prayer in Gibeon ; And how God appeared to him in a Vision , and answered his Request . To a new Tune . OF all the Kings in Israel that reigned long ago ; I do remember very well that Chronicles does show That when it fell to Solomon , He proved such a Paragon , As never there was any one , as after you shall know . For when he came to be a King , He feared God in everything ; In Sacrifice and worshipping great cost he did bestow ; There was a place in Israel , Call'd Gibeon at this day ; And thither went King Solomon to Sacrifice and pray . But God did in a Vision Appear unto King Solomon While he was yet in Gibeon , and thus to him did say : Because of thy Humility Ask what thou wilt ( Oh King ) of me Oh speak that I may give it thee before thou go'st away . Then Solomon thus answered to thee be always praise ; For that as thou hast promised in our forefathers days : Since that as thou hast promised not to leave their Table unfurnished But to leave it garnished to them that sees thy ways . Thy holy Wisdom grant to me thy holy Law to understand And understanding heart to see the judgements of each Land : That I may well Govern the same As justice rightly ought to frame To the Glory of his name with mercy in my hand . Then God who took it in good part what Solomon had said ; Because it was so in his heart to ask as he had pray'd ; He said I will give unto thee As never none the like shall be Either before or after thee therefore be not afraid . I will give thee Wisdom great and Treasure passing store ; Now sitting on thy Father's seat as no King had before ; With that arose King So [ l ] omon And went away to Gibeon To guide the charge he took upon as no King took before . Then after that in Israel He reigned long their King full well As all the Holy Books can tell with great increase and store . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . 