A VINDICATION OF A Marriage Life : In Answer to the Broadside against MARRIAGE . THou dull insipid Wretch , who could'st not choose , And apter Theme for thy Prophaner Muse : Thy limping Pegasus though shod with Rhyme Flounders and halts ev'n in the second Line . As if like Balaam's Ass , he durst not go His usual Pace against A Godly Foe . Thou Mercinariest Rhymer of the Town , Thou Pimp to all Debauches for a Crown , Who for a Strumpet's Fee dost thus dispense , With breach of Laws of God and Conscience . And rather then thy Luxury control Wilt fell the noble Charter of thy Soul. Nay had the other poor half Crown been giv'n , I dare to swear Th'adst sold thy claim to Heav'n ! From the du [ l ] l Poem we collect no more But only that thou art , A Son of a Whore The Harlots Champion and her part dost take Because thou lov'st her for thy Mother's sake . And who can think him less who thus derides The holy Privileges of happy Brides . Who cause himself's a Bastard won't allow The blessed effects of a conjugal Vow . So Thieves and Rogues who boast their own esteem Would have she honest , though as bad as them . And with loud Oaths applaud that very crime , For which perhaps they're hang'd another time , Which just deserved Fate since 'tis his due ; I wish may reach our Poetaster too : Who by a long accustom'd trick of thieving Is the known Robber both of th' Dead and Living , When hir'd Verse hath worn his fancy bore , His Brain as Empty as his Pockets are . Made desperate through want , like some mad Lad , That's driven by necessity to Pad : He riffes all the Poets in the Town And what he rudely seizes , makes his own . No Play or Character , e're yet was Writ , But suffers by this Highway man of Wit . Who wheresoe're he meets it bids it stand And quietly resign at his Command . No wonder then if such as he degrade The spotless pleasures of a Marriage Bed ; Whose Infamous Progenitors ne're knew What honours to that happy 'state is due : But still ran on in and Incestuous Line , And knew their Parentage no more than Swine : Thus I dare swear , Incorrigible Sot , Thou was't not god by any holy Plot ; But as a hated Judgement didst proceed To punish those who did so ill a Deed. By thy own Parents Recon'd a mishap Whose Birth they dreaded worse than A Clap. Thy Mother cursed thee in her very womb , And wish'd her belly might have been thy Tomb : So passionately mad she was to see , That thou shoul'st spoil her 6 Months Lechery : What shall I say thou thing of low Estate ! The longest Curs's too short to reach thy Fate , To make comparison 'twixt Hell and thee , Were but to compliment thy misery , And by so mild a simily to press , Too modest thoughts on thy unhappiness . Enjoy thyself , thy Royets and thy Wenches , Thy Pocky Pills , thy Diet , Drink and Drenches ; Commend thy Plasters , Scringes , and Fluxes , And swear there's no such pleasure as the Pox is : Thy snuffling Eloquence shall ne're dissuade Me from the Pleasures of my Nuptial Bed. Marriage the Noble Centre of the Mind , Wherein and Heaven we only quiet find : The even Calm of fifty pleasant Years , Wherein no storms but those of love appears , And repetitions of our Chaste delights , Which we like Gods enjoy without affrights , We run no hazards , but go to't with ease , Squenching our Souls , and leaving when we please ; Cloy'd with the pleasures of the active Night , Our minds next day repeat the blessed delight ; Flush'd with sweet kisses , our desires move So high we drown our Duty in our Love . Marriage , the holy order which confines , Our straggling faculties to good designs , That wise retreat which bids us take a View , Both of our selves , and of our fortune's too , Which busy Youth could ne're abide to do - A Wife ! that sweet divider of our cares ! Doubles our joy and half our sorrow shares : If angry Destiny our Fortune shakes , She smiles , and heals those wounds which Fortune maxes : Sugar'd within humble Language , she Calmly diverts our Growing misery . In short a Virtuous Wife's a good estate , And he who has her is secur'd by Fate , To Live in Credit , and be Fortunate . Printed for J. L. T. [ A ] s [ h ] field . A VINDICATION OF A Marriage Life : In Answer to the Broadside against MARRIAGE . THou dull insipid Wretch , who could'st not choose , And apter Theme for thy Prophaner Muse : Thy limping Pegasus though shod with Rhyme Flounders and halts ev'n in the second Line . As if like Balaam's Ass , he durst not go His usual Pace against A Godly Foe . Thou Mercinariest Rhymer of the Town , Thou Pimp to all Debauches for a Crown , Who for a Strumpet's Fee dost thus dispense , With breach of Laws of God and Conscience . And rather then thy Luxury control Wilt fell the noble Charter of thy Soul. Nay had the other poor half Crown been giv'n , I dare to swear Th'adst sold thy claim to Heav'n ! From the du [ l ] l Poem we collect no more But only that thou art , A Son of a Whore The Harlots Champion and her part dost take Because thou lov'st her for thy Mother's sake . And who can think him less who thus derides The holy Privileges of happy Brides . Who cause himself's a Bastard won't allow The blessed effects of a conjugal Vow . So Thieves and Rogues who boast their own esteem Would have she honest , though as bad as them . And with loud Oaths applaud that very crime , For which perhaps they're hang'd another time , Which just deserved Fate since 'tis his due ; I wish may reach our Poetaster too : Who by a long accustom'd trick of thieving Is the known Robber both of th' Dead and Living , When hir'd Verse hath worn his fancy bore , His Brain as Empty as his Pockets are . Made desperate through want , like some mad Lad , That's driven by necessity to Pad : He riffes all the Poets in the Town And what he rudely seizes , makes his own . No Play or Character , e're yet was Writ , But suffers by this Highway man of Wit . Who wheresoe're he meets it bids it stand And quietly resign at his Command . No wonder then if such as he degrade The spotless pleasures of a Marriage Bed ; Whose Infamous Progenitors ne're knew What honours to that happy 'state is due : But still ran on in and Incestuous Line , And knew their Parentage no more than Swine : Thus I dare swear , Incorrigible Sot , Thou was't not god by any holy Plot ; But as a hated Judgement didst proceed To punish those who did so ill a Deed. By thy own Parents Recon'd a mishap Whose Birth they dreaded worse than A Clap. Thy Mother cursed thee in her very womb , And wish'd her belly might have been thy Tomb : So passionately mad she was to see , That thou shoul'st spoil her 6 Months Lechery : What shall I say thou thing of low Estate ! The longest Curs's too short to reach thy Fate , To make comparison 'twixt Hell and thee , Were but to compliment thy misery , And by so mild a simily to press , Too modest thoughts on thy unhappiness . Enjoy thyself , thy Royets and thy Wenches , Thy Pocky Pills , thy Diet , Drink and Drenches ; Commend thy Plasters , Scringes , and Fluxes , And swear there's no such pleasure as the Pox is : Thy snuffling Eloquence shall ne're dissuade Me from the Pleasures of my Nuptial Bed. Marriage the Noble Centre of the Mind , Wherein and Heaven we only quiet find : The even Calm of fifty pleasant Years , Wherein no storms but those of love appears , And repetitions of our Chaste delights , Which we like Gods enjoy without affrights , We run no hazards , but go to't with ease , Squenching our Souls , and leaving when we please ; Cloy'd with the pleasures of the active Night , Our minds next day repeat the blessed delight ; Flush'd with sweet kisses , our desires move So high we drown our Duty in our Love . Marriage , the holy order which confines , Our straggling faculties to good designs , That wise retreat which bids us take a View , Both of our selves , and of our fortune's too , Which busy Youth could ne're abide to do - A Wife ! that sweet divider of our cares ! Doubles our joy and half our sorrow shares : If angry Destiny our Fortune shakes , She smiles , and heals those wounds which Fortune maxes : Sugar'd within humble Language , she Calmly diverts our Growing misery . In short a Virtuous Wife's a good estate , And he who has her is secur'd by Fate , To Live in Credit , and be Fortunate . Printed for J. L. T. [ A ] s [ h ] field . 