NOVEMBER . THOU Sun that shed'st the Days , look down and see A Month more shining by Events , than thee ; Departed Saints and Souls sign'd it before , But now the living sign it more . Persons and Actions meet , All meant for Joy , But some built up , and some destroy . Bore us That Ushering Curse , so dearly known , And then the Month is All our Own . So , at the first , Darkness was thrown about Th' unshapen Earth , and Light was thence struck out . [ 1. Day , is All Saints . 2. All Souls . ] Draw the first Curtain , and the Scene is then A Triple State of Cull'd and Trusted men : Men in whose hands 'twas once t' have giv'n us more Then our Bold Father's Asked before : Who , had they us'd their Prince's Grace , had god What no Arms could , and Theirs will not . What more then Witchcraft did our Blessing Curse , And made the Cure make Evils worse ? 'Tis the Third Day ; throw in the Black [ ? ] Stone , Mark it for Curs'd , and let it stand Alone . 3. Day , The Assembling of the un - happy Par - liament . [ BUT ] TO hold [ ! speak ] gentler things ! This Fourth was seen [ The ] softest [ Image ] e of our Beauteous Queen . [ Bring ] me [ a Lamb , ] not us'd to Elder Food , [ That ] ha's as yet more Milk then Blood , That [ to the Honou ] r of this Early Bride ( Like Thetis [ jo ] india to Peleus side , ) Some Tender Thing may fallen ; though none can be So White , so Tender , as is She . While we at home our Little Turf debate , She spreads our Glories to another State . [ 4. Day , The Birth of the Princess MARY . ] NEXT view a Treason of the worst Intent , Had not our Own done more then Strangers meant ; Religion is the Thing both sides pretend , But either to a different End : They , out of Zeal , labour to rear their own , These , out of Zeal , to pull All down . Bless Us from These , as Them ! But yet compare Those in the Vault , These in the Chair . Though the just Lot of unsuccessful since Fix their's Without , you'l find worse Heads Within . BUT hark ! What Thunder's that ? and who those men [ Fly ] ing tow'rds Heav'n , but falling down again ? Whose those Black Corpse cast on the Guilty Shore ? 'Tis since , that swims to its own Door . [ 12. ] Day , [ TO ] he Kings Victory at Brainford . 'Tis the Third scourge of Rebels , which allow'd Our Army , like the Prophets Cloud Did from and Handful rise , Until at last Their Sky was by it Overcast . But ( as Snakes Hiss after th' have lost their Sting ) The Traitor call'd This , Treachery in the King . Away , and view the Graces and the Hours Hov'ring aloof , and dropping mingled Flowers Upon a Cradle , where and Infant lay More Grace , more Goddess then were they ; Thrice did they destine Her to pass the seas ( Love made Her Thrice to pass with ease ) To raise a strength of Princes first , and then To raise Another strength of Men . Most Fruitful Queen ! we boast Both Give [ tO ] s , And thus The Day was meant to You , the Joy to Us. 16. Day , The Birth of our gram - cious Q. MARY . Next to this Mother stands a Virgin Queen , Courting and Courted wheresoever seen ; The Peoples Love first from Her Troubles grew ; Her Reign then made That Love her Due , That Comely Order , which did then adorn Both Fabrics , now by Facion's torn ; That Form , by her allow'd , of Common Pray'r Is styl'd vain Beating of the Air . How do that [ e ] y Honour , how forsake Her Crown ! Her Times are still Cry'd up , but Practis'd Down . 17. Day , The begin - ning of Q Elizabeths Reign . Reach last , the Whitest Stone the World yet knew , White as the soul , to whom the Day is due . Son of the Peaceful James , how is he blessed With All His Blessings , but His Rest ! Though undeserved Times call All His Pow'rs , And Troubles season Other Hour's , Le [ tO ] this Day flow to Him as void of Care , As Feasts to Gods , and Poets are : The Wish is Just , Oh Heavens ! As our strife Hath added to His Cares , add Ye to His Life . 19. Day , The Birth of our gram - cious King CHARLES . And now , since His Large Heart with Hers is met , Whose Day the stars on purpose near His set . NOVEMBER shall to me forever shine , Read in its Ink , Redder in Wine . And since the Third ( which almost hath made shift T' Absolve the Treason of the Fift ) Cannot be well Remembered , or Forgotten By Loyal Hearts , as if 'twere not ; The Las [ tO ] extreme , against the First [ we [ ] 'l bring : That gave us Many Tyrants , This a KING . NOVEMBER . THOU Sun that shed'st the Days , look down and see A Month more shining by Events , than thee ; Departed Saints and Souls sign'd it before , But now the living sign it more . Persons and Actions meet , All meant for Joy , But some built up , and some destroy . Bore us That Ushering Curse , so dearly known , And then the Month is All our Own . So , at the first , Darkness was thrown about Th' unshapen Earth , and Light was thence struck out . [ 1. Day , is All Saints . 2. All Souls . ] Draw the first Curtain , and the Scene is then A Triple State of Cull'd and Trusted men : Men in whose hands 'twas once t' have giv'n us more Then our Bold Father's Asked before : Who , had they us'd their Prince's Grace , had god What no Arms could , and Theirs will not . What more then Witchcraft did our Blessing Curse , And made the Cure make Evils worse ? 'Tis the Third Day ; throw in the Black [ ? ] Stone , Mark it for Curs'd , and let it stand Alone . 3. Day , The Assembling of the un - happy Par - liament . [ BUT ] TO hold [ ! speak ] gentler things ! This Fourth was seen [ The ] softest [ Image ] e of our Beauteous Queen . [ Bring ] me [ a Lamb , ] not us'd to Elder Food , [ That ] ha's as yet more Milk then Blood , That [ to the Honou ] r of this Early Bride ( Like Thetis [ jo ] india to Peleus side , ) Some Tender Thing may fallen ; though none can be So White , so Tender , as is She . While we at home our Little Turf debate , She spreads our Glories to another State . [ 4. Day , The Birth of the Princess MARY . ] NEXT view a Treason of the worst Intent , Had not our Own done more then Strangers meant ; Religion is the Thing both sides pretend , But either to a different End : They , out of Zeal , labour to rear their own , These , out of Zeal , to pull All down . Bless Us from These , as Them ! But yet compare Those in the Vault , These in the Chair . Though the just Lot of unsuccessful since Fix their's Without , you'l find worse Heads Within . BUT hark ! What Thunder's that ? and who those men [ Fly ] ing tow'rds Heav'n , but falling down again ? Whose those Black Corpse cast on the Guilty Shore ? 'Tis since , that swims to its own Door . [ 12. ] Day , [ TO ] he Kings Victory at Brainford . 'Tis the Third scourge of Rebels , which allow'd Our Army , like the Prophets Cloud Did from and Handful rise , Until at last Their Sky was by it Overcast . But ( as Snakes Hiss after th' have lost their Sting ) The Traitor call'd This , Treachery in the King . Away , and view the Graces and the Hours Hov'ring aloof , and dropping mingled Flowers Upon a Cradle , where and Infant lay More Grace , more Goddess then were they ; Thrice did they destine Her to pass the seas ( Love made Her Thrice to pass with ease ) To raise a strength of Princes first , and then To raise Another strength of Men . Most Fruitful Queen ! we boast Both Give [ tO ] s , And thus The Day was meant to You , the Joy to Us. 16. Day , The Birth of our gram - cious Q. MARY . Next to this Mother stands a Virgin Queen , Courting and Courted wheresoever seen ; The Peoples Love first from Her Troubles grew ; Her Reign then made That Love her Due , That Comely Order , which did then adorn Both Fabrics , now by Facion's torn ; That Form , by her allow'd , of Common Pray'r Is styl'd vain Beating of the Air . How do that [ e ] y Honour , how forsake Her Crown ! Her Times are still Cry'd up , but Practis'd Down . 17. Day , The begin - ning of Q Elizabeths Reign . Reach last , the Whitest Stone the World yet knew , White as the soul , to whom the Day is due . Son of the Peaceful James , how is he blessed With All His Blessings , but His Rest ! Though undeserved Times call All His Pow'rs , And Troubles season Other Hour's , Le [ tO ] this Day flow to Him as void of Care , As Feasts to Gods , and Poets are : The Wish is Just , Oh Heavens ! As our strife Hath added to His Cares , add Ye to His Life . 19. Day , The Birth of our gram - cious King CHARLES . And now , since His Large Heart with Hers is met , Whose Day the stars on purpose near His set . NOVEMBER shall to me forever shine , Read in its Ink , Redder in Wine . And since the Third ( which almost hath made shift T' Absolve the Treason of the Fift ) Cannot be well Remembered , or Forgotten By Loyal Hearts , as if 'twere not ; The Las [ tO ] extreme , against the First [ we [ ] 'l bring : That gave us Many Tyrants , This a KING . 