Love in a Missed ; A loving Couple once together met , And changing words , a Passion did bege A Missed before my eyes I have , quoth she , What dost thou mean , my Boy , to do with me : To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . A Thumping lusty Country Lad , was tripping o're the Plain , And meeting with a handsome Maid , some talk did entertain : Quoth he , thou art exceeding fair , thou dost my heart surprise , Quoth she , I prithee have a care , There's a missed before mine eyes . Now is my heart thine own , quoth he , so beautiful thou art , That I must needs thy Captive be , I feel such deadly smar Quoth she , if thou but Loyal prove , i'le not thy love despise , For I am almost fall'n in love , With a missed before mine eyes . Said he , my love it is entire , I love thee as my life , If thou wilt grant me my desire , then thou shalt be my wife : Embracing her , he laid her down , and just as down she lies , I pray thee now my fancy Crown , Though a mist's before mine eyes . TO work they went immediately , he touch'd her to the quick , And so did please her Fantasy , with this same pretty trick : Quoth she , that Maid is surely mad , that this same sport denies , When she meets with a lusty Lad , Though a mist's before her eyes . Thus kissing and embracing too , upon the Green they lay , She cry'd , I have not yet my due , come let us longer play : This is the prettiest kind of Trade , that Love did e're devise , Sure it is Cupid that hath made , This missed before mine eyes . A gentle fire within my breast , methinks I now do feel , The pleasure cannot be expressed , no tongue can it reveal : But if I were a Maid again , I should my self despise , 'Tis pretty sport I tell you plain , Though a mist's before mine eyes . My Mother she was much too blame , to me so much persuade , Never to mind this pleasant Game , but still to live a Maid : For when she tells me so again , her Counsel i'le despise , I cannot see i'le tell her plain , There's a missed before mine eyes . Come let us try the tother touch , for I have not enough , She that does at this pastime grutch , does sure mistake the stuff : And as he entered then the Fort , 'tis mighty sweet , she cries , O who would think this pretty sport Casts mists before mine eyes . She put this Youngster to his Trumps till he began to blow , But up and down she briskly jumps , for sometime 'twill be so : Quoth she , i'll never after miss , such opportunities , For this is perfect Lovers bliss , With a missed before mine eyes . At last he forc'd was to retire , which caused her to frown , He hop'd that he had cool'd her fire ; and as he laid her down , He thought it would good manners be , again to see her rise : And thou , quoth she , hast cured me , Of the missed before mine eyes . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-streeet . Love in a Missed ; A loving Couple once together met , And changing words , a Passion did bege A Missed before my eyes I have , quoth she , What dost thou mean , my Boy , to do with me : To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . A Thumping lusty Country Lad , was tripping o're the Plain , And meeting with a handsome Maid , some talk did entertain : Quoth he , thou art exceeding fair , thou dost my heart surprise , Quoth she , I prithee have a care , There's a missed before mine eyes . Now is my heart thine own , quoth he , so beautiful thou art , That I must needs thy Captive be , I feel such deadly smar Quoth she , if thou but Loyal prove , i'le not thy love despise , For I am almost fall'n in love , With a missed before mine eyes . Said he , my love it is entire , I love thee as my life , If thou wilt grant me my desire , then thou shalt be my wife : Embracing her , he laid her down , and just as down she lies , I pray thee now my fancy Crown , Though a mist's before mine eyes . TO work they went immediately , he touch'd her to the quick , And so did please her Fantasy , with this same pretty trick : Quoth she , that Maid is surely mad , that this same sport denies , When she meets with a lusty Lad , Though a mist's before her eyes . Thus kissing and embracing too , upon the Green they lay , She cry'd , I have not yet my due , come let us longer play : This is the prettiest kind of Trade , that Love did e're devise , Sure it is Cupid that hath made , This missed before mine eyes . A gentle fire within my breast , methinks I now do feel , The pleasure cannot be expressed , no tongue can it reveal : But if I were a Maid again , I should my self despise , 'Tis pretty sport I tell you plain , Though a mist's before mine eyes . My Mother she was much too blame , to me so much persuade , Never to mind this pleasant Game , but still to live a Maid : For when she tells me so again , her Counsel i'le despise , I cannot see i'le tell her plain , There's a missed before mine eyes . Come let us try the tother touch , for I have not enough , She that does at this pastime grutch , does sure mistake the stuff : And as he entered then the Fort , 'tis mighty sweet , she cries , O who would think this pretty sport Casts mists before mine eyes . She put this Youngster to his Trumps till he began to blow , But up and down she briskly jumps , for sometime 'twill be so : Quoth she , i'll never after miss , such opportunities , For this is perfect Lovers bliss , With a missed before mine eyes . At last he forc'd was to retire , which caused her to frown , He hop'd that he had cool'd her fire ; and as he laid her down , He thought it would good manners be , again to see her rise : And thou , quoth she , hast cured me , Of the missed before mine eyes . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-streeet . 