The Vision . 'TWas at and hour when busy Nature lay Dissolv'd in slumbers from the noisy Day , When gloomy Shades and dusky Atomes spread A darkness o're this Universal Bed , And all the gaudy beams of light were fled ; My flutt'ring fancy 'midst this silent peace , Careless of sleep , and unconcern'd with ease , Drew to my wandering thoughts and object near , Strange in its from , and in appearance rare . Methought ( yet sure it cou'd not be a Dream , So real all its Imperfections seem ) With Princely Port a stately Monarch came , Airy was his mien , and Noble was his frame . A sullen sorrow brooded on his Brow ; He seem'd beneath some weighty Fate to bow ; Distrust and Grief upon his Eyelids rest , And show the struggling troubles of his Breast . Upon his Head a nodding Crown he wore , And in his Hand a yielding Sceptre boar ; Forlorn and careless did his strokes appear , And every motion spoke a Wild Despair . This mournful Scene did all my passion move , And challeng'd both my pity and my love , And yet I thought him by the ruins made Above my pity , and beyond my aid ; Long did he in a pensive silence stand , For sure his thoughts cou'd not his words command : Too big for Speech --------- Till sullen murmurs from his bosom flew , And thus a draught of his disorders drew . Almighty Powers ! By whose consent alone Ordain'd , I did ascend the Regal Throne , Led by your dark Decrees and Conduct there , I , as your great Vicegerent , did appear Beneath my Charge , while crowding Nations sat And bow'd and did admire my rising Fate , 'Twas then my Laurels fresh and blooming grew , And a loud fame of all my Glories flew ; My willing Subject's bless and clap the day , The bravest and the best were all my friends , While Faction in confusion sneak'd away ; At distance grinn'd , but cou'd not reach their ends . Such Faith unto my promises were shown , My Word , the took for Oaths were useless grown ; My very Word compos'd their hope's and fears , Sacred 'twas held , and all serene appears . Until my fate revers'd did backwards reel , Blurr'd all my Fame , and alter'd Fortune's Wheel ; You Gods ! Why did you thus unconstant prove ? Was I the Envy of th' Abodes above ? Or was this stately Majesty but given To be the Cheat and Flatt'ry ev'n of Heaven ? Can ne're a Saint implore Celestial aid ? Nor yet the Virgin Goddess Intercede ? 'Twas for her her Cause engag'd s suff'ring lie ; 'Twas to advance her just Divinity : Yes , I avow the Quarrel and the Cause , 'Twas for my Faith , and to out-cope the Laws . I'de rather be forsaken and alone , Than fit a craving Monarch on a Throne : Let all my cringing Slaves at distance stand , Fawn on th' Invading Foe , and kiss his Hand ; Leave me , their Prince , farsaken and forlorn , Expos'd to all their slights and public scorn . Let after Ages judge the mighty Test , Judge the Magnific Grandure of my breast . I saw my great forefather yet afore Seal all his Sacred Vows with Martyr'd gore ; His Royal Issue branded with disgrace , Saw all th' Efforts they us'd t'Exclude the Raze : And yet these Terrors all I dare invade , Thus Conscience , thus Religion does persuade . I'll stand or fallen by both those Tenets still , And be the second Martyr to my Will : And then he stop'd , his fiery Eye-Balls move , And thus with his resisting Fate he strove , And stood , like Capaneus Defying Jove . When strait a noise , from whence it came unknown , Was herd to answer in and angry tone ; Die then unpity'd Prince , for thus thy Fate Long since , by its Decrees , did antedate : To such perverseness , what regard is shown , What Merit coud'st thou plead to mount a Throne ? To thy repeated Wishes Heav'n was kind , And pleas'd the wild Ambition of thy mind ; It put a Sceptre in thy eager Hand , Yet not t' oppose the Genius of the Land ; If Reason cou'd not sway thy Actions here , Heav'ns not oblig'd by Wonders to appear . See how thy Creatures at a distance stand , Skulk from thy troubles to a safer Land ; Those who their Beings to thy bounty own , Forsake their fawning Cheats , and now are gone . Those who were Friends to thee and to thy Cause , Bold for their Rights , and for their Countries Cause , Thou , from thy darker Counsels , did'st remove , And want their aid now they refuse their love . Some more imperfect sounds did reach my Ear , But sense return'd , and day light did appear . FINIS . The Vision . 'TWas at and hour when busy Nature lay Dissolv'd in slumbers from the noisy Day , When gloomy Shades and dusky Atomes spread A darkness o're this Universal Bed , And all the gaudy beams of light were fled ; My flutt'ring fancy 'midst this silent peace , Careless of sleep , and unconcern'd with ease , Drew to my wandering thoughts and object near , Strange in its from , and in appearance rare . Methought ( yet sure it cou'd not be a Dream , So real all its Imperfections seem ) With Princely Port a stately Monarch came , Airy was his mien , and Noble was his frame . A sullen sorrow brooded on his Brow ; He seem'd beneath some weighty Fate to bow ; Distrust and Grief upon his Eyelids rest , And show the struggling troubles of his Breast . Upon his Head a nodding Crown he wore , And in his Hand a yielding Sceptre boar ; Forlorn and careless did his strokes appear , And every motion spoke a Wild Despair . This mournful Scene did all my passion move , And challeng'd both my pity and my love , And yet I thought him by the ruins made Above my pity , and beyond my aid ; Long did he in a pensive silence stand , For sure his thoughts cou'd not his words command : Too big for Speech --------- Till sullen murmurs from his bosom flew , And thus a draught of his disorders drew . Almighty Powers ! By whose consent alone Ordain'd , I did ascend the Regal Throne , Led by your dark Decrees and Conduct there , I , as your great Vicegerent , did appear Beneath my Charge , while crowding Nations sat And bow'd and did admire my rising Fate , 'Twas then my Laurels fresh and blooming grew , And a loud fame of all my Glories flew ; My willing Subject's bless and clap the day , The bravest and the best were all my friends , While Faction in confusion sneak'd away ; At distance grinn'd , but cou'd not reach their ends . Such Faith unto my promises were shown , My Word , the took for Oaths were useless grown ; My very Word compos'd their hope's and fears , Sacred 'twas held , and all serene appears . Until my fate revers'd did backwards reel , Blurr'd all my Fame , and alter'd Fortune's Wheel ; You Gods ! Why did you thus unconstant prove ? Was I the Envy of th' Abodes above ? Or was this stately Majesty but given To be the Cheat and Flatt'ry ev'n of Heaven ? Can ne're a Saint implore Celestial aid ? Nor yet the Virgin Goddess Intercede ? 'Twas for her her Cause engag'd s suff'ring lie ; 'Twas to advance her just Divinity : Yes , I avow the Quarrel and the Cause , 'Twas for my Faith , and to out-cope the Laws . I'de rather be forsaken and alone , Than fit a craving Monarch on a Throne : Let all my cringing Slaves at distance stand , Fawn on th' Invading Foe , and kiss his Hand ; Leave me , their Prince , farsaken and forlorn , Expos'd to all their slights and public scorn . Let after Ages judge the mighty Test , Judge the Magnific Grandure of my breast . I saw my great forefather yet afore Seal all his Sacred Vows with Martyr'd gore ; His Royal Issue branded with disgrace , Saw all th' Efforts they us'd t'Exclude the Raze : And yet these Terrors all I dare invade , Thus Conscience , thus Religion does persuade . I'll stand or fallen by both those Tenets still , And be the second Martyr to my Will : And then he stop'd , his fiery Eye-Balls move , And thus with his resisting Fate he strove , And stood , like Capaneus Defying Jove . When strait a noise , from whence it came unknown , Was herd to answer in and angry tone ; Die then unpity'd Prince , for thus thy Fate Long since , by its Decrees , did antedate : To such perverseness , what regard is shown , What Merit coud'st thou plead to mount a Throne ? To thy repeated Wishes Heav'n was kind , And pleas'd the wild Ambition of thy mind ; It put a Sceptre in thy eager Hand , Yet not t' oppose the Genius of the Land ; If Reason cou'd not sway thy Actions here , Heav'ns not oblig'd by Wonders to appear . See how thy Creatures at a distance stand , Skulk from thy troubles to a safer Land ; Those who their Beings to thy bounty own , Forsake their fawning Cheats , and now are gone . Those who were Friends to thee and to thy Cause , Bold for their Rights , and for their Countries Cause , Thou , from thy darker Counsels , did'st remove , And want their aid now they refuse their love . Some more imperfect sounds did reach my Ear , But sense return'd , and day light did appear . FINIS . 