The Scotch Lasses Constancy OR Jenny's Lamentation for the loss of Jockey : Who for her sake was Unfortunately Kill'd by SAWNEY in a Duel . Being a most pleasant New Song , to a New Tune . TWa Bonny Lads were Sawny and Jockey , But Jockey was Low'd and Sawny unlucky ; Yet Sawny was tall , well-favour'd and witty , But I's in my heart thought Jockey more pretty : For when he view'd me su'd me , woo'd me , Never was Lad so like to undo me , Fie I cried , and almost dy'd , lest Jockey would gang and come no mere to me . Jockey would Love , but he would not marry , And I was afraid that I should miscarry ; For his cunning tongue with Wit as so guilded , That I had a dread my heart would have yielded : Daily he pressed me , blessed me , kissed me , Lost was the hour methought when he missed me Crying denying , & sighing I woo'd him . And much ado I had to get from him . But unlucky fate robb'd me of my Jewel , For Sawney would make him fight in a Duel ; Then down in a dale with Cyprus surrounded , Oh! there in my fight poor Jockey was wounded : But when he thrill'd him , fell'd him , kill'd him , Who can express my grief that beheld him ; Raging I tore my hair to bind him , And vowed and swore I'de ne'r stay behind him . I'se shriek'd and I'se cry'd , wa'es me so unhappy , For I'se now have lost mine nene sweet Jockey , Sawny I cursed and bid him to fly me , I vow'd & I swore he should ne'r come nigh me : But I'd spite him , hate him , fight him , And never again would Jenny like him : Though he did sighs and almost die , He cry'd fie on me , cause I did slight him . And from me I'se bid him straightway be ganging , When with arms across , and head down hanging ; While that my poor Jockey was a dying , He to the Woods then departed sighing : And his breath wanted , panted , fainted , While that for him many tears were not scanted : I'se beatrice my breast , and my grief expressed , Wae's me that Death my joy had suppressed . At which my Jockey a little reviving , And with his death as it were he lay then striving , Open'd his eyes and looked upon me : And faintly sigh'd , Ah! Death has undone me : Jenny my Honey , I'se must part from thee , But when I'm dead , sure there's none will wrong thee , I did love thee , and that did move me , To Fight , that so a man I'se might prove me . But ah cruel Fate to death I am wounded , Oh! and with that again he sounded ; While for to dress his wound I apply'd me , But uvae alas his life was deny'd me , Death had appaul'd him , gaul'd him , thrall'd him , So that he dy'd with grief I beheld him ; And left poor Jenny all a mourning , And cruel Sawny cursing and scorning . From Jockies cold Lips I often stole kisses , The which while he lived were still my blisses : A thousand times I did sob , sighs it ; And much ado I'se had to be quie For as I ey'd him , spy'd him , ply'd him , Never a thought could then pass beside him : I'se ban the Fates that Life denying , Had robb'd me of Jockey , and long I sat sighing . Till I'se at last with Cyprus crown'd him , And with my Tears ; Is'e almost had drown'd him The Turtles about us then came flying , And mourning coo'd to seem a sighing : I'se view'd him , ru'd him , with Flowers strew'd him And with my love to the last pursu'd him : Resolving that I'se not stay behind him , But sighing , do , and seek for to find him . FINIS , Printed for P. Brooksby in Pyecorner . The Scotch Lasses Constancy OR Jenny's Lamentation for the loss of Jockey : Who for her sake was Unfortunately Kill'd by SAWNEY in a Duel . Being a most pleasant New Song , to a New Tune . TWa Bonny Lads were Sawny and Jockey , But Jockey was Low'd and Sawny unlucky ; Yet Sawny was tall , well-favour'd and witty , But I's in my heart thought Jockey more pretty : For when he view'd me su'd me , woo'd me , Never was Lad so like to undo me , Fie I cried , and almost dy'd , lest Jockey would gang and come no mere to me . Jockey would Love , but he would not marry , And I was afraid that I should miscarry ; For his cunning tongue with Wit as so guilded , That I had a dread my heart would have yielded : Daily he pressed me , blessed me , kissed me , Lost was the hour methought when he missed me Crying denying , & sighing I woo'd him . And much ado I had to get from him . But unlucky fate robb'd me of my Jewel , For Sawney would make him fight in a Duel ; Then down in a dale with Cyprus surrounded , Oh! there in my fight poor Jockey was wounded : But when he thrill'd him , fell'd him , kill'd him , Who can express my grief that beheld him ; Raging I tore my hair to bind him , And vowed and swore I'de ne'r stay behind him . I'se shriek'd and I'se cry'd , wa'es me so unhappy , For I'se now have lost mine nene sweet Jockey , Sawny I cursed and bid him to fly me , I vow'd & I swore he should ne'r come nigh me : But I'd spite him , hate him , fight him , And never again would Jenny like him : Though he did sighs and almost die , He cry'd fie on me , cause I did slight him . And from me I'se bid him straightway be ganging , When with arms across , and head down hanging ; While that my poor Jockey was a dying , He to the Woods then departed sighing : And his breath wanted , panted , fainted , While that for him many tears were not scanted : I'se beatrice my breast , and my grief expressed , Wae's me that Death my joy had suppressed . At which my Jockey a little reviving , And with his death as it were he lay then striving , Open'd his eyes and looked upon me : And faintly sigh'd , Ah! Death has undone me : Jenny my Honey , I'se must part from thee , But when I'm dead , sure there's none will wrong thee , I did love thee , and that did move me , To Fight , that so a man I'se might prove me . But ah cruel Fate to death I am wounded , Oh! and with that again he sounded ; While for to dress his wound I apply'd me , But uvae alas his life was deny'd me , Death had appaul'd him , gaul'd him , thrall'd him , So that he dy'd with grief I beheld him ; And left poor Jenny all a mourning , And cruel Sawny cursing and scorning . From Jockies cold Lips I often stole kisses , The which while he lived were still my blisses : A thousand times I did sob , sighs it ; And much ado I'se had to be quie For as I ey'd him , spy'd him , ply'd him , Never a thought could then pass beside him : I'se ban the Fates that Life denying , Had robb'd me of Jockey , and long I sat sighing . Till I'se at last with Cyprus crown'd him , And with my Tears ; Is'e almost had drown'd him The Turtles about us then came flying , And mourning coo'd to seem a sighing : I'se view'd him , ru'd him , with Flowers strew'd him And with my love to the last pursu'd him : Resolving that I'se not stay behind him , But sighing , do , and seek for to find him . FINIS , Printed for P. Brooksby in Pyecorner . 