The KINGS Last farewell to the World , OR THE Dead KINGS Living Meditations , at the ap - proach of Death denounced against Him . THrough fear of sharp and bitter pain , by cutting off my days , No pleasure in my Crown I take , Nor in my Royal Rays . I shall descend with grieved heart , ( for none my life can save ) Unto the dismal gates of death , to moulder in the Grave . Farewell my Wife , and Children all , wipe off my brinish tears . I am deprived of my Throne , and from my future years . Farewell my people every one , for I no more shall see The wonders of the Lord on earth , nor with you shall I be . Mine eyes do fail , and to the earth to worms I must be hurl'd : Henceforth no more shall I behold the people of the world . My Crown and Sceptre I must leave , my glory , and my Throne : Adieu my fellow Princes all , I from the earth am gone . Mine Age ( which did approach to me ) departed is away ; And as a Shepherds tent remov'd , and I return'd to clay ; And as a Weaver does cut off his thrum , even so my life , Must be cut off , from people and from Children , and from Wife . In sighs by day , and groans by night with bitterness I moan , And do consume away with grief , my end to think upon . Fear in the morning me assails , Death Lion-like I see , Even all the day ( till night ) to roar to make and end of me . I chattered as the schreeking Crane , or Swallow that does fly : As Dove forlorn , in pensiveness , does mourn , even so do I , I looked up to thee , Oh Lord , but now mine eyes do fail . O ease my sad oppressed soul , for death does now prevail . What shall I say , to Gods Decree , if he would speak , I then should live ; it is a work for God , I find no help from men . Yet if my life prolonged was , my sins for to repent , Then softly I would go and mourn , until my life was spent . And all my years , that I should live , for mine offences foul , I would pass o're in bitterness , of my distressed soul . O Lord , thou hast discovered to me , that by these things Men live ; Through thee , Princes do Reign , thou swayest over Kings . In all things here Gods providence , and will alone commands , The life of my poor spirit sad , is only in his hands , O , that the Lord would me restore . my strength then I would give , To serve my God in humbleness while he would let me live . Behold , Oh Lord , when I in peace , did look to be restor'd , Then was my soul in bitterness , cast off , and I abhor'd , Yet in the love of God most good , his righteousness most just Hath thrown me down into the pit , and to corrupted dust , Because that I have gone astray , and cherished war and strife , My days are now cut off , and I am quite bereft of life , O cast my sins behind thy back , good God , I humbly pray , And my offences with the blood of Christ wash clean away . When my dead body is interred , I cannot praise thee there , Death cannot celebrate the Lord , my God , most good , most deer ; They that go down into the pit destructions them devour : For in thy truth they cannot hope , but perish by thy power . The living , Lord , the living , they shall praise thy holy name . With all the glorious host above , and I shall do the same , The father to his children here , that are of tender youth , Shall them forewarn , and unto them make known thy glorious truth . Forgive my sins , and save my soul Oh Lord , I thee entreat , And blot out mine offences all , for they are very grea Receive my soul for Christ his sake , my Prophet , Priest , and King , That I with Saints and Angels may eternal praises sing . FINIS . 38 Isay. Imprimatur T. J. Jan. 31. 1648 LONDON Printed for Robert Ibbitson 1648. The KINGS Last farewell to the World , OR THE Dead KINGS Living Meditations , at the ap - proach of Death denounced against Him . THrough fear of sharp and bitter pain , by cutting off my days , No pleasure in my Crown I take , Nor in my Royal Rays . I shall descend with grieved heart , ( for none my life can save ) Unto the dismal gates of death , to moulder in the Grave . Farewell my Wife , and Children all , wipe off my brinish tears . I am deprived of my Throne , and from my future years . Farewell my people every one , for I no more shall see The wonders of the Lord on earth , nor with you shall I be . Mine eyes do fail , and to the earth to worms I must be hurl'd : Henceforth no more shall I behold the people of the world . My Crown and Sceptre I must leave , my glory , and my Throne : Adieu my fellow Princes all , I from the earth am gone . Mine Age ( which did approach to me ) departed is away ; And as a Shepherds tent remov'd , and I return'd to clay ; And as a Weaver does cut off his thrum , even so my life , Must be cut off , from people and from Children , and from Wife . In sighs by day , and groans by night with bitterness I moan , And do consume away with grief , my end to think upon . Fear in the morning me assails , Death Lion-like I see , Even all the day ( till night ) to roar to make and end of me . I chattered as the schreeking Crane , or Swallow that does fly : As Dove forlorn , in pensiveness , does mourn , even so do I , I looked up to thee , Oh Lord , but now mine eyes do fail . O ease my sad oppressed soul , for death does now prevail . What shall I say , to Gods Decree , if he would speak , I then should live ; it is a work for God , I find no help from men . Yet if my life prolonged was , my sins for to repent , Then softly I would go and mourn , until my life was spent . And all my years , that I should live , for mine offences foul , I would pass o're in bitterness , of my distressed soul . O Lord , thou hast discovered to me , that by these things Men live ; Through thee , Princes do Reign , thou swayest over Kings . In all things here Gods providence , and will alone commands , The life of my poor spirit sad , is only in his hands , O , that the Lord would me restore . my strength then I would give , To serve my God in humbleness while he would let me live . Behold , Oh Lord , when I in peace , did look to be restor'd , Then was my soul in bitterness , cast off , and I abhor'd , Yet in the love of God most good , his righteousness most just Hath thrown me down into the pit , and to corrupted dust , Because that I have gone astray , and cherished war and strife , My days are now cut off , and I am quite bereft of life , O cast my sins behind thy back , good God , I humbly pray , And my offences with the blood of Christ wash clean away . When my dead body is interred , I cannot praise thee there , Death cannot celebrate the Lord , my God , most good , most deer ; They that go down into the pit destructions them devour : For in thy truth they cannot hope , but perish by thy power . The living , Lord , the living , they shall praise thy holy name . With all the glorious host above , and I shall do the same , The father to his children here , that are of tender youth , Shall them forewarn , and unto them make known thy glorious truth . Forgive my sins , and save my soul Oh Lord , I thee entreat , And blot out mine offences all , for they are very grea Receive my soul for Christ his sake , my Prophet , Priest , and King , That I with Saints and Angels may eternal praises sing . FINIS . 38 Isay. Imprimatur T. J. Jan. 31. 1648 LONDON Printed for Robert Ibbitson 1648. The KINGS Last farewell to the World , OR THE Dead KINGS Living Meditations , at the ap - proach of Death denounced against Him . THrough fear of sharp and bitter pain , by cutting off my days , No pleasure in my Crown I take , Nor in my Royal Rays . I shall descend with grieved heart , ( for none my life can save ) Unto the dismal gates of death , to moulder in the Grave . Farewell my Wife , and Children all , wipe off my brinish tears . I am deprived of my Throne , and from my future years . Farewell my people every one , for I no more shall see The wonders of the Lord on earth , nor with you shall I be . Mine eyes do fail , and to the earth to worms I must be hurl'd : Henceforth no more shall I behold the people of the world . My Crown and Sceptre I must leave , my glory , and my Throne : Adieu my fellow Princes all , I from the earth am gone . Mine Age ( which did approach to me ) departed is away ; And as a Shepherds tent remov'd , and I return'd to clay ; And as a Weaver does cut off his thrum , even so my life , Must be cut off , from people and from Children , and from Wife . In sighs by day , and groans by night with bitterness I moan , And do consume away with grief , my end to think upon . Fear in the morning me assails , Death Lion-like I see , Even all the day ( till night ) to roar to make and end of me . I chattered as the schreeking Crane , or Swallow that does fly : As Dove forlorn , in pensiveness , does mourn , even so do I , I looked up to thee , Oh Lord , but now mine eyes do fail . O ease my sad oppressed soul , for death does now prevail . What shall I say , to Gods Decree , if he would speak , I then should live ; it is a work for God , I find no help from men . Yet if my life prolonged was , my sins for to repent , Then softly I would go and mourn , until my life was spent . And all my years , that I should live , for mine offences foul , I would pass o're in bitterness , of my distressed soul . O Lord , thou hast discovered to me , that by these things Men live ; Through thee , Princes do Reign , thou swayest over Kings . In all things here Gods providence , and will alone commands , The life of my poor spirit sad , is only in his hands , O , that the Lord would me restore . my strength then I would give , To serve my God in humbleness while he would let me live . Behold , Oh Lord , when I in peace , did look to be restor'd , Then was my soul in bitterness , cast off , and I abhor'd , Yet in the love of God most good , his righteousness most just Hath thrown me down into the pit , and to corrupted dust , Because that I have gone astray , and cherished war and strife , My days are now cut off , and I am quite bereft of life , O cast my sins behind thy back , good God , I humbly pray , And my offences with the blood of Christ wash clean away . When my dead body is interred , I cannot praise thee there , Death cannot celebrate the Lord , my God , most good , most deer ; They that go down into the pit destructions them devour : For in thy truth they cannot hope , but perish by thy power . The living , Lord , the living , they shall praise thy holy name . With all the glorious host above , and I shall do the same , The father to his children here , that are of tender youth , Shall them forewarn , and unto them make known thy glorious truth . Forgive my sins , and save my soul Oh Lord , I thee entreat , And blot out mine offences all , for they are very grea Receive my soul for Christ his sake , my Prophet , Priest , and King , That I with Saints and Angels may eternal praises sing . FINIS . 38 Isay. Imprimatur T. J. Jan. 31. 1648 LONDON Printed for Robert Ibbitson 1648. The KINGS Last farewell to the World , OR THE Dead KINGS Living Meditations , at the ap - proach of Death denounced against Him . THrough fear of sharp and bitter pain , by cutting off my days , No pleasure in my Crown I take , Nor in my Royal Rays . I shall descend with grieved heart , ( for none my life can save ) Unto the dismal gates of death , to moulder in the Grave . Farewell my Wife , and Children all , wipe off my brinish tears . I am deprived of my Throne , and from my future years . Farewell my people every one , for I no more shall see The wonders of the Lord on earth , nor with you shall I be . Mine eyes do fail , and to the earth to worms I must be hurl'd : Henceforth no more shall I behold the people of the world . My Crown and Sceptre I must leave , my glory , and my Throne : Adieu my fellow Princes all , I from the earth am gone . Mine Age ( which did approach to me ) departed is away ; And as a Shepherds tent remov'd , and I return'd to clay ; And as a Weaver does cut off his thrum , even so my life , Must be cut off , from people and from Children , and from Wife . In sighs by day , and groans by night with bitterness I moan , And do consume away with grief , my end to think upon . Fear in the morning me assails , Death Lion-like I see , Even all the day ( till night ) to roar to make and end of me . I chattered as the schreeking Crane , or Swallow that does fly : As Dove forlorn , in pensiveness , does mourn , even so do I , I looked up to thee , Oh Lord , but now mine eyes do fail . O ease my sad oppressed soul , for death does now prevail . What shall I say , to Gods Decree , if he would speak , I then should live ; it is a work for God , I find no help from men . Yet if my life prolonged was , my sins for to repent , Then softly I would go and mourn , until my life was spent . And all my years , that I should live , for mine offences foul , I would pass o're in bitterness , of my distressed soul . O Lord , thou hast discovered to me , that by these things Men live ; Through thee , Princes do Reign , thou swayest over Kings . In all things here Gods providence , and will alone commands , The life of my poor spirit sad , is only in his hands , O , that the Lord would me restore . my strength then I would give , To serve my God in humbleness while he would let me live . Behold , Oh Lord , when I in peace , did look to be restor'd , Then was my soul in bitterness , cast off , and I abhor'd , Yet in the love of God most good , his righteousness most just Hath thrown me down into the pit , and to corrupted dust , Because that I have gone astray , and cherished war and strife , My days are now cut off , and I am quite bereft of life , O cast my sins behind thy back , good God , I humbly pray , And my offences with the blood of Christ wash clean away . When my dead body is interred , I cannot praise thee there , Death cannot celebrate the Lord , my God , most good , most deer ; They that go down into the pit destructions them devour : For in thy truth they cannot hope , but perish by thy power . The living , Lord , the living , they shall praise thy holy name . With all the glorious host above , and I shall do the same , The father to his children here , that are of tender youth , Shall them forewarn , and unto them make known thy glorious truth . Forgive my sins , and save my soul Oh Lord , I thee entreat , And blot out mine offences all , for they are very grea Receive my soul for Christ his sake , my Prophet , Priest , and King , That I with Saints and Angels may eternal praises sing . FINIS . 38 Isay. Imprimatur T. J. Jan. 31. 1648 LONDON Printed for Robert Ibbitson 1648. 