CONSTANCE and ANTHONY . Or , And admirable New Northern Story . Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby , in Westmoreland , The Lads Name Anthony , Constance the Lass ; To Sea they went both , and great Danger did p [ a ] ss : How they suffer'd Shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again ! By wondered Fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at Home in Joy and Content , TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth , A gallant History . They lov'd exceeding well , As plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell : The like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . Anthony must go to Sea , His Calling did him bind , My Constance dear quoth he , I must leave thee behind : I prithee do not grieve , Thy tears will not prevail : I'll think on thee my sweet , When the ship is under sail . But still she cries Anthoney etc How many that be ? said he , Consider well the Case ; Quoth she sweet Anthony , I'll not bide in this place ; If thoul't gang so will I , Of the means do not doubt , Woman's Policy ; Great Matters may find out . My bonny . etc I would be very glad , But prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , What say'st thou to me now , The Sea though canst not brook Yes very well quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , For thy sweet Company . My boney etc Anthoney's leave she had , And dressed in Man's Array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , Seen on a Summer's Day , Oh see what Love can do , At Home she will not abide , With her true Love she'll go , Let Weal or Woe betide , My dearest etc In the Ship 'twas her Lot , To be the under Cook , And at the Fire hight , Wondered pains she took ; She served every one , Fitting to their degree , And now and then alone , She kissed Anthony . My bonny etc Alack and well a day , By Tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , Upon the Coast of Spain , To the Mercy of the Waves , They all committed were , Constance her own self saves , Then she cry'd for her dear . My bonny . etc Swimming upon a Plank , At Bilboa she god ashore : First she did heaven thank , Then she lamented soar . O woe is me said she , The saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , Now on the Seas does drive , My bonny etc What shall become of me , Why do I strive for store , Si' that my sweet Anthony , I never shall see him more . Fair Constance do not grieve The same good providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet But he is far from hence . Still she etc A Spanish Merchant rich , Saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , And was so grievous sad . He had in England been , And English understood : He having herd and seen , He in Amazement stood . Still she etc The Merchant asked her , What was that Anthony , Quoth she my Brother Sir , Who came from thence with me He did her entertain , Thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , Before she met her joy . Still she etc Anthony up was ta'ne By and English runagade , With whom he did remain , At the Sea roving Trade ; I' that Nature of a Slave , He did I' that Galley row ; Thus he his Life did save , But Constance did not know , Still she etc Now mark what came to pass , See how the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was , Surprised this English Turk . And into Bilboa brought , All that aboard her were , Constance full little thought , Anthony was no near . Still she cries Anthony , etc When they came on shore , Anthony and the rest ; She who was sad before , Was now with Joy possessed . The Merchant much did muse , At this so sudden Change ; He did demand the News , Which unto him was strange . Still she cries Anthony , etc Upon her Knees she fell , Unto her Master kind , And all the Truth did tell , Nothing she kept-behind . At which he did admire , And in a Ship of Spain , Now paying for their hire , He sent them home again . Still she cries Anthony , etc The Spanish Merchant rich , Did of's own Bounty give , A sum of Gold on which They now most bravely live . And now in Westmoreland , Constance and Anthony , Were joined Hand in Hand , And liv'd in Mirth and Joy , Still she cries Anthony , My bony Anthony , Good Providence I see , Both guarded Thee and Me. FINIS . CONSTANCE and ANTHONY . Or , And admirable New Northern Story . Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby , in Westmoreland , The Lads Name Anthony , Constance the Lass ; To Sea they went both , and great Danger did p [ a ] ss : How they suffer'd Shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again ! By wondered Fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at Home in Joy and Content , TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth , A gallant History . They lov'd exceeding well , As plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell : The like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . Anthony must go to Sea , His Calling did him bind , My Constance dear quoth he , I must leave thee behind : I prithee do not grieve , Thy tears will not prevail : I'll think on thee my sweet , When the ship is under sail . But still she cries Anthoney etc How many that be ? said he , Consider well the Case ; Quoth she sweet Anthony , I'll not bide in this place ; If thoul't gang so will I , Of the means do not doubt , Woman's Policy ; Great Matters may find out . My bonny . etc I would be very glad , But prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , What say'st thou to me now , The Sea though canst not brook Yes very well quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , For thy sweet Company . My boney etc Anthoney's leave she had , And dressed in Man's Array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , Seen on a Summer's Day , Oh see what Love can do , At Home she will not abide , With her true Love she'll go , Let Weal or Woe betide , My dearest etc In the Ship 'twas her Lot , To be the under Cook , And at the Fire hight , Wondered pains she took ; She served every one , Fitting to their degree , And now and then alone , She kissed Anthony . My bonny etc Alack and well a day , By Tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , Upon the Coast of Spain , To the Mercy of the Waves , They all committed were , Constance her own self saves , Then she cry'd for her dear . My bonny . etc Swimming upon a Plank , At Bilboa she god ashore : First she did heaven thank , Then she lamented soar . O woe is me said she , The saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , Now on the Seas does drive , My bonny etc What shall become of me , Why do I strive for store , Si' that my sweet Anthony , I never shall see him more . Fair Constance do not grieve The same good providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet But he is far from hence . Still she etc A Spanish Merchant rich , Saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , And was so grievous sad . He had in England been , And English understood : He having herd and seen , He in Amazement stood . Still she etc The Merchant asked her , What was that Anthony , Quoth she my Brother Sir , Who came from thence with me He did her entertain , Thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , Before she met her joy . Still she etc Anthony up was ta'ne By and English runagade , With whom he did remain , At the Sea roving Trade ; I' that Nature of a Slave , He did I' that Galley row ; Thus he his Life did save , But Constance did not know , Still she etc Now mark what came to pass , See how the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was , Surprised this English Turk . And into Bilboa brought , All that aboard her were , Constance full little thought , Anthony was no near . Still she cries Anthony , etc When they came on shore , Anthony and the rest ; She who was sad before , Was now with Joy possessed . The Merchant much did muse , At this so sudden Change ; He did demand the News , Which unto him was strange . Still she cries Anthony , etc Upon her Knees she fell , Unto her Master kind , And all the Truth did tell , Nothing she kept-behind . At which he did admire , And in a Ship of Spain , Now paying for their hire , He sent them home again . Still she cries Anthony , etc The Spanish Merchant rich , Did of's own Bounty give , A sum of Gold on which They now most bravely live . And now in Westmoreland , Constance and Anthony , Were joined Hand in Hand , And liv'd in Mirth and Joy , Still she cries Anthony , My bony Anthony , Good Providence I see , Both guarded Thee and Me. FINIS . CONSTANCE and ANTHONY . Or , And admirable New Northern Story . Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby , in Westmoreland , The Lads Name Anthony , Constance the Lass ; To Sea they went both , and great Danger did p [ a ] ss : How they suffer'd Shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again ! By wondered Fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at Home in Joy and Content , TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth , A gallant History . They lov'd exceeding well , As plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell : The like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . Anthony must go to Sea , His Calling did him bind , My Constance dear quoth he , I must leave thee behind : I prithee do not grieve , Thy tears will not prevail : I'll think on thee my sweet , When the ship is under sail . But still she cries Anthoney etc How many that be ? said he , Consider well the Case ; Quoth she sweet Anthony , I'll not bide in this place ; If thoul't gang so will I , Of the means do not doubt , Woman's Policy ; Great Matters may find out . My bonny . etc I would be very glad , But prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , What say'st thou to me now , The Sea though canst not brook Yes very well quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , For thy sweet Company . My boney etc Anthoney's leave she had , And dressed in Man's Array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , Seen on a Summer's Day , Oh see what Love can do , At Home she will not abide , With her true Love she'll go , Let Weal or Woe betide , My dearest etc In the Ship 'twas her Lot , To be the under Cook , And at the Fire hight , Wondered pains she took ; She served every one , Fitting to their degree , And now and then alone , She kissed Anthony . My bonny etc Alack and well a day , By Tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , Upon the Coast of Spain , To the Mercy of the Waves , They all committed were , Constance her own self saves , Then she cry'd for her dear . My bonny . etc Swimming upon a Plank , At Bilboa she god ashore : First she did heaven thank , Then she lamented soar . O woe is me said she , The saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , Now on the Seas does drive , My bonny etc What shall become of me , Why do I strive for store , Si' that my sweet Anthony , I never shall see him more . Fair Constance do not grieve The same good providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet But he is far from hence . Still she etc A Spanish Merchant rich , Saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , And was so grievous sad . He had in England been , And English understood : He having herd and seen , He in Amazement stood . Still she etc The Merchant asked her , What was that Anthony , Quoth she my Brother Sir , Who came from thence with me He did her entertain , Thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , Before she met her joy . Still she etc Anthony up was ta'ne By and English runagade , With whom he did remain , At the Sea roving Trade ; I' that Nature of a Slave , He did I' that Galley row ; Thus he his Life did save , But Constance did not know , Still she etc Now mark what came to pass , See how the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was , Surprised this English Turk . And into Bilboa brought , All that aboard her were , Constance full little thought , Anthony was no near . Still she cries Anthony , etc When they came on shore , Anthony and the rest ; She who was sad before , Was now with Joy possessed . The Merchant much did muse , At this so sudden Change ; He did demand the News , Which unto him was strange . Still she cries Anthony , etc Upon her Knees she fell , Unto her Master kind , And all the Truth did tell , Nothing she kept-behind . At which he did admire , And in a Ship of Spain , Now paying for their hire , He sent them home again . Still she cries Anthony , etc The Spanish Merchant rich , Did of's own Bounty give , A sum of Gold on which They now most bravely live . And now in Westmoreland , Constance and Anthony , Were joined Hand in Hand , And liv'd in Mirth and Joy , Still she cries Anthony , My bony Anthony , Good Providence I see , Both guarded Thee and Me. FINIS . CONSTANCE and ANTHONY . Or , And admirable New Northern Story . Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby , in Westmoreland , The Lads Name Anthony , Constance the Lass ; To Sea they went both , and great Danger did p [ a ] ss : How they suffer'd Shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again ! By wondered Fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at Home in Joy and Content , TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth , A gallant History . They lov'd exceeding well , As plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell : The like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . Anthony must go to Sea , His Calling did him bind , My Constance dear quoth he , I must leave thee behind : I prithee do not grieve , Thy tears will not prevail : I'll think on thee my sweet , When the ship is under sail . But still she cries Anthoney etc How many that be ? said he , Consider well the Case ; Quoth she sweet Anthony , I'll not bide in this place ; If thoul't gang so will I , Of the means do not doubt , Woman's Policy ; Great Matters may find out . My bonny . etc I would be very glad , But prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , What say'st thou to me now , The Sea though canst not brook Yes very well quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , For thy sweet Company . My boney etc Anthoney's leave she had , And dressed in Man's Array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , Seen on a Summer's Day , Oh see what Love can do , At Home she will not abide , With her true Love she'll go , Let Weal or Woe betide , My dearest etc In the Ship 'twas her Lot , To be the under Cook , And at the Fire hight , Wondered pains she took ; She served every one , Fitting to their degree , And now and then alone , She kissed Anthony . My bonny etc Alack and well a day , By Tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , Upon the Coast of Spain , To the Mercy of the Waves , They all committed were , Constance her own self saves , Then she cry'd for her dear . My bonny . etc Swimming upon a Plank , At Bilboa she god ashore : First she did heaven thank , Then she lamented soar . O woe is me said she , The saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , Now on the Seas does drive , My bonny etc What shall become of me , Why do I strive for store , Si' that my sweet Anthony , I never shall see him more . Fair Constance do not grieve The same good providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet But he is far from hence . Still she etc A Spanish Merchant rich , Saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , And was so grievous sad . He had in England been , And English understood : He having herd and seen , He in Amazement stood . Still she etc The Merchant asked her , What was that Anthony , Quoth she my Brother Sir , Who came from thence with me He did her entertain , Thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , Before she met her joy . Still she etc Anthony up was ta'ne By and English runagade , With whom he did remain , At the Sea roving Trade ; I' that Nature of a Slave , He did I' that Galley row ; Thus he his Life did save , But Constance did not know , Still she etc Now mark what came to pass , See how the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was , Surprised this English Turk . And into Bilboa brought , All that aboard her were , Constance full little thought , Anthony was no near . Still she cries Anthony , etc When they came on shore , Anthony and the rest ; She who was sad before , Was now with Joy possessed . The Merchant much did muse , At this so sudden Change ; He did demand the News , Which unto him was strange . Still she cries Anthony , etc Upon her Knees she fell , Unto her Master kind , And all the Truth did tell , Nothing she kept-behind . At which he did admire , And in a Ship of Spain , Now paying for their hire , He sent them home again . Still she cries Anthony , etc The Spanish Merchant rich , Did of's own Bounty give , A sum of Gold on which They now most bravely live . And now in Westmoreland , Constance and Anthony , Were joined Hand in Hand , And liv'd in Mirth and Joy , Still she cries Anthony , My bony Anthony , Good Providence I see , Both guarded Thee and Me. FINIS . 