The Dumb Lady ; Or , NO , no , not I ; I'le Answer . To the Tune of , the Doubtful Virgin , or the new Borey , or Will you be a Man of Fashion . UNderneath a little Mountain where I us'd my self to walk , By a pretty pleasant Fountain there I herd two Lovers talk Ha ! said he my only Jewel , would you have your Lover die , Can you be so fare and cruel no indeed quoth she not I , Why my dear my pretty Nancy , will you then torment my mind ? If poor Willy you can fancy show your self to him more kind . Or if you design my Ruin , I am willing for to die But be short in my undoing Still she answered no not I . Why then prey will you torment me and take pleasure in my smart , When a kind look will content me will you frown to break my Heart , If it be my Nanny's Pleasure on my Sword I'le freely die , Give the word my only Treasure Still she answered no not I . Bid me live and i'le endeavour , every way to gain your Love If this be to great a Favour , bid me from your eyes remove Deal with me as with a Creature as you please shall live or die Are you Mistress of ill Nature , Still she answered no not I . This indeed was more tontenting , than what e're before she gave Though it was not full consenting it encourag'd her Flame . Should I tempt to kiss my fair one would you say despair and die , Say my Love my only dear one Still she answered no not I . Then he laid his Arms , about her she the Posture did Approve , He resolv'd no more to doubt her and by progress of his Love Gain'd such conquest straight upon her that at last they swain cry Will you yield the Fort of Honour Still she answered no not I . But their was so little distance and so yielding a defence That he found all her resistance was but only complesence , Now said he you must surrender if I force you will cry ? All she said so : to defend her Was indeed my dear not I . Hard it was at the first Sally for to say which side would bear , Though poor Willey oft did Rally he as often did retrea But what most deserv'd my wonder Willey he for all his Art , Though he kept poor Nanny under was the first desired to part . Printed for P. Brooksy at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Dumb Lady ; Or , NO , no , not I ; I'le Answer . To the Tune of , the Doubtful Virgin , or the new Borey , or Will you be a Man of Fashion . UNderneath a little Mountain where I us'd my self to walk , By a pretty pleasant Fountain there I herd two Lovers talk Ha ! said he my only Jewel , would you have your Lover die , Can you be so fare and cruel no indeed quoth she not I , Why my dear my pretty Nancy , will you then torment my mind ? If poor Willy you can fancy show your self to him more kind . Or if you design my Ruin , I am willing for to die But be short in my undoing Still she answered no not I . Why then prey will you torment me and take pleasure in my smart , When a kind look will content me will you frown to break my Heart , If it be my Nanny's Pleasure on my Sword I'le freely die , Give the word my only Treasure Still she answered no not I . Bid me live and i'le endeavour , every way to gain your Love If this be to great a Favour , bid me from your eyes remove Deal with me as with a Creature as you please shall live or die Are you Mistress of ill Nature , Still she answered no not I . This indeed was more tontenting , than what e're before she gave Though it was not full consenting it encourag'd her Flame . Should I tempt to kiss my fair one would you say despair and die , Say my Love my only dear one Still she answered no not I . Then he laid his Arms , about her she the Posture did Approve , He resolv'd no more to doubt her and by progress of his Love Gain'd such conquest straight upon her that at last they swain cry Will you yield the Fort of Honour Still she answered no not I . But their was so little distance and so yielding a defence That he found all her resistance was but only complesence , Now said he you must surrender if I force you will cry ? All she said so : to defend her Was indeed my dear not I . Hard it was at the first Sally for to say which side would bear , Though poor Willey oft did Rally he as often did retrea But what most deserv'd my wonder Willey he for all his Art , Though he kept poor Nanny under was the first desired to part . Printed for P. Brooksy at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Dumb Lady ; Or , NO , no , not I ; I'le Answer . To the Tune of , the Doubtful Virgin , or the new Borey , or Will you be a Man of Fashion . UNderneath a little Mountain where I us'd my self to walk , By a pretty pleasant Fountain there I herd two Lovers talk Ha ! said he my only Jewel , would you have your Lover die , Can you be so fare and cruel no indeed quoth she not I , Why my dear my pretty Nancy , will you then torment my mind ? If poor Willy you can fancy show your self to him more kind . Or if you design my Ruin , I am willing for to die But be short in my undoing Still she answered no not I . Why then prey will you torment me and take pleasure in my smart , When a kind look will content me will you frown to break my Heart , If it be my Nanny's Pleasure on my Sword I'le freely die , Give the word my only Treasure Still she answered no not I . Bid me live and i'le endeavour , every way to gain your Love If this be to great a Favour , bid me from your eyes remove Deal with me as with a Creature as you please shall live or die Are you Mistress of ill Nature , Still she answered no not I . This indeed was more tontenting , than what e're before she gave Though it was not full consenting it encourag'd her Flame . Should I tempt to kiss my fair one would you say despair and die , Say my Love my only dear one Still she answered no not I . Then he laid his Arms , about her she the Posture did Approve , He resolv'd no more to doubt her and by progress of his Love Gain'd such conquest straight upon her that at last they swain cry Will you yield the Fort of Honour Still she answered no not I . But their was so little distance and so yielding a defence That he found all her resistance was but only complesence , Now said he you must surrender if I force you will cry ? All she said so : to defend her Was indeed my dear not I . Hard it was at the first Sally for to say which side would bear , Though poor Willey oft did Rally he as often did retrea But what most deserv'd my wonder Willey he for all his Art , Though he kept poor Nanny under was the first desired to part . Printed for P. Brooksy at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Dumb Lady ; Or , NO , no , not I ; I'le Answer . To the Tune of , the Doubtful Virgin , or the new Borey , or Will you be a Man of Fashion . UNderneath a little Mountain where I us'd my self to walk , By a pretty pleasant Fountain there I herd two Lovers talk Ha ! said he my only Jewel , would you have your Lover die , Can you be so fare and cruel no indeed quoth she not I , Why my dear my pretty Nancy , will you then torment my mind ? If poor Willy you can fancy show your self to him more kind . Or if you design my Ruin , I am willing for to die But be short in my undoing Still she answered no not I . Why then prey will you torment me and take pleasure in my smart , When a kind look will content me will you frown to break my Heart , If it be my Nanny's Pleasure on my Sword I'le freely die , Give the word my only Treasure Still she answered no not I . Bid me live and i'le endeavour , every way to gain your Love If this be to great a Favour , bid me from your eyes remove Deal with me as with a Creature as you please shall live or die Are you Mistress of ill Nature , Still she answered no not I . This indeed was more tontenting , than what e're before she gave Though it was not full consenting it encourag'd her Flame . Should I tempt to kiss my fair one would you say despair and die , Say my Love my only dear one Still she answered no not I . Then he laid his Arms , about her she the Posture did Approve , He resolv'd no more to doubt her and by progress of his Love Gain'd such conquest straight upon her that at last they swain cry Will you yield the Fort of Honour Still she answered no not I . But their was so little distance and so yielding a defence That he found all her resistance was but only complesence , Now said he you must surrender if I force you will cry ? All she said so : to defend her Was indeed my dear not I . Hard it was at the first Sally for to say which side would bear , Though poor Willey oft did Rally he as often did retrea But what most deserv'd my wonder Willey he for all his Art , Though he kept poor Nanny under was the first desired to part . Printed for P. Brooksy at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 