The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH ; who being forced to Wed him , consented to his Murder , for the Love of G. Strangwidge , for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went away , And for that fault am here prepared to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes disliked my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My childish mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I prayed they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loathed to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side ; Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away : I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within ; But , mercy , Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rure , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , betwixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey . Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidges's wife . O wretched world , who cankered rust does blind , And cursed Men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame , and woe . You Devonshire dams , and courteous Cornwal knights That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou , my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we lived and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents , now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel ; And farewell life wherein such sorrows shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now , sweet Lord , forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for foul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our Queen with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife . And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH ; who being forced to Wed him , consented to his Murder , for the Love of G. Strangwidge , for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went away , And for that fault am here prepared to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes disliked my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My childish mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I prayed they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loathed to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side ; Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away : I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within ; But , mercy , Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rure , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , betwixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey . Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidges's wife . O wretched world , who cankered rust does blind , And cursed Men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame , and woe . You Devonshire dams , and courteous Cornwal knights That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou , my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we lived and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents , now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel ; And farewell life wherein such sorrows shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now , sweet Lord , forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for foul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our Queen with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife . And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH ; who being forced to Wed him , consented to his Murder , for the Love of G. Strangwidge , for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went away , And for that fault am here prepared to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes disliked my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My childish mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I prayed they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loathed to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side ; Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away : I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within ; But , mercy , Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rure , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , betwixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey . Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidges's wife . O wretched world , who cankered rust does blind , And cursed Men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame , and woe . You Devonshire dams , and courteous Cornwal knights That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou , my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we lived and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents , now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel ; And farewell life wherein such sorrows shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now , sweet Lord , forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for foul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our Queen with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife . And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH ; who being forced to Wed him , consented to his Murder , for the Love of G. Strangwidge , for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went away , And for that fault am here prepared to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes disliked my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My childish mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I prayed they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loathed to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side ; Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away : I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within ; But , mercy , Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rure , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , betwixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey . Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidges's wife . O wretched world , who cankered rust does blind , And cursed Men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame , and woe . You Devonshire dams , and courteous Cornwal knights That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou , my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we lived and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents , now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel ; And farewell life wherein such sorrows shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now , sweet Lord , forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for foul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our Queen with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife . And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . 