The KING and NORTHERN-MAN . Or , The Oppress'd TENNANT Redress'd . TO drive away the weary day , A book I chanced to take in hand : And therein I read assuredly , A story as you shall understand . Perusing many a history over , among the leaves I chanced to view , The Books name and title is this , THE SECOND LESSON TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE . There read I of a Northumberland Man , That was born and bred up in the king's own land He paid twenty shillings rend a year To the king as I do understand . By him there dwelled a lawyer false , That with his farm he was not content ; But over the poor man still hang'd his nose , Because he did gather the king's rend . He told him he his lease did forfeit , And that he must there no longer abide ; The King by such loons had much wrong done And for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man pray'd him for to cease , And content himself if he would be willing ; And pick no vantage in my lease , I shall give to thee forty shilling . It's neither forty shilling nor forty pound , I'm warrant thee can agree thee and me ; Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , And stand unto my courtesy . The poor man said , I may not do so , My wife and bairns will make ill work , If thou with my farm will let me go , Thou seem'st a good fellow , I'll give the 5 mark . The lawyer he would not be so content , But further in the matter he means to smell ; The neighbours bid the poor man provide his rend And make submission to the King himself . He god and humble staff on his back , A jerkin I wot that was gray ; With a good blue bonnet he thought it no lack To the king he is ganging as fast as may be . He had not gone a mile out of the town , But one of his neighbours he did espy ; How far is it to the King for thither I'm bound As fast as every I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , For your simplicity I make moan ; I'm warrant you , you may ask for the king . When nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the king had gone so far , I'm ne'er sooght him a mile out of the town ; He's either sought me . or we had ne'er come near At home I had rather spent a crown . But when he came to the city of London , Of every man he for the king did call , They told him he need not fear , For the king he lies now at White-hall . And with spying of Earls in the city , Because he had never been there before : He lay so long a bed the next day , The court was removed to Windsor that morn . You have lain too long then said the host , You have lain too long by a great while , The King he is now to Windsor gone , He's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , If I had been wise I might had consider ; Be like the king of me he's got some note , He had ne'er gone away had not I come thither . He fled not for you said the host , But high you to Windsor as fast as you may ; Besure you requite your cost , For look what is passed the king will pay . But when he came to Windsor castle , With his humble staff on his back . Altho' the gates wide open stood , He laid on them till he made [ tO ] hem crack . Why stay , pray friend art thou mad ? quoth the porter What makes thee keep this stir today ? Why I am a tenant of the kings , Who have a message to him to say : The king has men enough , said the porter . Your message well that they ean say ; Why there is ne'er a knave that the king does keep Shall ken my secret mind to day . I were told e'er I came from home , E'er I god thither it would be dear bought ; Let me , I'll give thee a single penny , Or if thou'lt e'en do it for nought , Gramercy , said the porter then , Thy reward is so great I cannot say nay . Yonder's a nobleman within the court , I'll first hear what he will say . When the porter came to the Nobleman , He said he would show him pretty sport ; There's sike a clown came to the gate , As come not these seven years to the court . He calls all knaves the king does keep , He raps at the gate and makes a great din ; He passing liberal of reward . He'd give a good single penny to be let in . Let him in then said the nobleman , Come in fellow the porter did say . If thou come within thyself he said Thy staff without the gate must stay . And this cuckold's cur may lig behind , What a Devil what a cur thou hast god with thee The king will take him up for his own self , I'm warrant when he does him see . Beshrew thy limbs , then said the poor man , Thou may count me fool or worse , I wot not what bankrupt lies by the king , For want of money may pick my purse . Let him in with his staff and his dog said the lord He gave a nod with 's head and bow with 's knee , If you be sir king , then said the poor man , As I can very well think you be . For I was told e'er I came from home , You're the goodliest man that e'er I saw before , With so many jingle janges about one's neck , As is about yours I ne'er saw none . I am not the king , said the nobleman , Fellow , though I have a proud coat ; If you ben't the king help me to the speech of him You seem a good fellow , I'm give thee a groat . Gramacy , said the nobleman , Thy reward is so great I can't say nay ; I'll know the king's pleasure if I can , Till I come again be sure you stay . Here's sike a staying said the poor man , Belike the king's better then any in our country I might ha' gone to the farthest nuke o' the house Neither lad nor lass to trouble me . When the nobleman came to the king , He said he would show his grace good sport ; Here's such a clown come to the gate , As come not these seven years to court . He calls all knaves your Highness does keep , And more than he tells them worse ; He'll not come without his staff and his dog , For fear some bankrupt should pick his purse . Let him , said the King with his staff and dog That of his sport we may see some ; We'll see how he'll handle every point . As soon as our match of bowls is done . The Nobleman led him thro' many a room , And through many a gallery gay ; What a de'il does the king with so many houses That he gets them not fill'd with corn and hay . At last they 'spyed the King in a garden , Yet from his game he did not start ; The day was so hight he cast off his doublet , He had nothing from his waist but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King said the Nobleman , Behold fellow , lo yonder he goes : I believe he's some unthrift , said the poor man , That has lost his money and pawn'd his clothes . But when he came before the King , The Nobleman made his courtisie , The poor man followed after him , Gave a nod with his head and a bend with his knee If you be the Sir King , then said the poor man , As I can hardly think you be , He is a good fellow that brought me hither , More likely to be King than thee . I am his Grace now said the king ; Fellow let me thy case understand ; If you Sir be King , I'm a tenant of yours , That was born and brought up in your own land . There dwells a lawyer hard by me , And a fault with my lease he said he had found , And all was for selling of five poor asses , To built and house upon your own ground . Has thou a lease here said our King , Or canst thou show to me this deed , He gave it into the king's own hand , And said Sir , here it is if you can read . Lets see the lease , then said our King , Then from his black box he pulled it out ; He gave it into the king's own hand , With four or five knots ty'd fast in a clout . We'll never unloose these knots , said the King , He gave it one that behind him did stay . It is a proud horse then said the poor man , Will not bear his own provinder along the highway Pay me forty shillings as I'm pay you , I will not think much to unlose a knot ; Would I were so occupied every day , I would unlose a score of them for a groat . When the King had got these letters read , And found the truth was very so ; I warrant thee thou hast not forfeit thy lease , If thou had sell'd five asses more ; Aye every one can warrant me , But all their warrants are not worth a flay ; For he that troubles me and will not let me go , Neither cares for warrants of me nor you . Thou'st have and injunction said our King , From troubling you he will cease ; He'll either show the good cause why , Or else he'll let thee live in peace . What is that injunction said the poor man , Good sir to me I pray you say ; Why it is a let I'll cause to be written , But art thou so simple as thou seem'st to-d The KING and NORTHERN-MAN . Or , The Oppress'd TENNANT Redress'd . TO drive away the weary day , A book I chanced to take in hand : And therein I read assuredly , A story as you shall understand . Perusing many a history over , among the leaves I chanced to view , The Books name and title is this , THE SECOND LESSON TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE . There read I of a Northumberland Man , That was born and bred up in the king's own land He paid twenty shillings rend a year To the king as I do understand . By him there dwelled a lawyer false , That with his farm he was not content ; But over the poor man still hang'd his nose , Because he did gather the king's rend . He told him he his lease did forfeit , And that he must there no longer abide ; The King by such loons had much wrong done And for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man pray'd him for to cease , And content himself if he would be willing ; And pick no vantage in my lease , I shall give to thee forty shilling . It's neither forty shilling nor forty pound , I'm warrant thee can agree thee and me ; Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , And stand unto my courtesy . The poor man said , I may not do so , My wife and bairns will make ill work , If thou with my farm will let me go , Thou seem'st a good fellow , I'll give the 5 mark . The lawyer he would not be so content , But further in the matter he means to smell ; The neighbours bid the poor man provide his rend And make submission to the King himself . He god and humble staff on his back , A jerkin I wot that was gray ; With a good blue bonnet he thought it no lack To the king he is ganging as fast as may be . He had not gone a mile out of the town , But one of his neighbours he did espy ; How far is it to the King for thither I'm bound As fast as every I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , For your simplicity I make moan ; I'm warrant you , you may ask for the king . When nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the king had gone so far , I'm ne'er sooght him a mile out of the town ; He's either sought me . or we had ne'er come near At home I had rather spent a crown . But when he came to the city of London , Of every man he for the king did call , They told him he need not fear , For the king he lies now at White-hall . And with spying of Earls in the city , Because he had never been there before : He lay so long a bed the next day , The court was removed to Windsor that morn . You have lain too long then said the host , You have lain too long by a great while , The King he is now to Windsor gone , He's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , If I had been wise I might had consider ; Be like the king of me he's got some note , He had ne'er gone away had not I come thither . He fled not for you said the host , But high you to Windsor as fast as you may ; Besure you requite your cost , For look what is passed the king will pay . But when he came to Windsor castle , With his humble staff on his back . Altho' the gates wide open stood , He laid on them till he made [ tO ] hem crack . Why stay , pray friend art thou mad ? quoth the porter What makes thee keep this stir today ? Why I am a tenant of the kings , Who have a message to him to say : The king has men enough , said the porter . Your message well that they ean say ; Why there is ne'er a knave that the king does keep Shall ken my secret mind to day . I were told e'er I came from home , E'er I god thither it would be dear bought ; Let me , I'll give thee a single penny , Or if thou'lt e'en do it for nought , Gramercy , said the porter then , Thy reward is so great I cannot say nay . Yonder's a nobleman within the court , I'll first hear what he will say . When the porter came to the Nobleman , He said he would show him pretty sport ; There's sike a clown came to the gate , As come not these seven years to the court . He calls all knaves the king does keep , He raps at the gate and makes a great din ; He passing liberal of reward . He'd give a good single penny to be let in . Let him in then said the nobleman , Come in fellow the porter did say . If thou come within thyself he said Thy staff without the gate must stay . And this cuckold's cur may lig behind , What a Devil what a cur thou hast god with thee The king will take him up for his own self , I'm warrant when he does him see . Beshrew thy limbs , then said the poor man , Thou may count me fool or worse , I wot not what bankrupt lies by the king , For want of money may pick my purse . Let him in with his staff and his dog said the lord He gave a nod with 's head and bow with 's knee , If you be sir king , then said the poor man , As I can very well think you be . For I was told e'er I came from home , You're the goodliest man that e'er I saw before , With so many jingle janges about one's neck , As is about yours I ne'er saw none . I am not the king , said the nobleman , Fellow , though I have a proud coat ; If you ben't the king help me to the speech of him You seem a good fellow , I'm give thee a groat . Gramacy , said the nobleman , Thy reward is so great I can't say nay ; I'll know the king's pleasure if I can , Till I come again be sure you stay . Here's sike a staying said the poor man , Belike the king's better then any in our country I might ha' gone to the farthest nuke o' the house Neither lad nor lass to trouble me . When the nobleman came to the king , He said he would show his grace good sport ; Here's such a clown come to the gate , As come not these seven years to court . He calls all knaves your Highness does keep , And more than he tells them worse ; He'll not come without his staff and his dog , For fear some bankrupt should pick his purse . Let him , said the King with his staff and dog That of his sport we may see some ; We'll see how he'll handle every point . As soon as our match of bowls is done . The Nobleman led him thro' many a room , And through many a gallery gay ; What a de'il does the king with so many houses That he gets them not fill'd with corn and hay . At last they 'spyed the King in a garden , Yet from his game he did not start ; The day was so hight he cast off his doublet , He had nothing from his waist but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King said the Nobleman , Behold fellow , lo yonder he goes : I believe he's some unthrift , said the poor man , That has lost his money and pawn'd his clothes . But when he came before the King , The Nobleman made his courtisie , The poor man followed after him , Gave a nod with his head and a bend with his knee If you be the Sir King , then said the poor man , As I can hardly think you be , He is a good fellow that brought me hither , More likely to be King than thee . I am his Grace now said the king ; Fellow let me thy case understand ; If you Sir be King , I'm a tenant of yours , That was born and brought up in your own land . There dwells a lawyer hard by me , And a fault with my lease he said he had found , And all was for selling of five poor asses , To built and house upon your own ground . Has thou a lease here said our King , Or canst thou show to me this deed , He gave it into the king's own hand , And said Sir , here it is if you can read . Lets see the lease , then said our King , Then from his black box he pulled it out ; He gave it into the king's own hand , With four or five knots ty'd fast in a clout . We'll never unloose these knots , said the King , He gave it one that behind him did stay . It is a proud horse then said the poor man , Will not bear his own provinder along the highway Pay me forty shillings as I'm pay you , I will not think much to unlose a knot ; Would I were so occupied every day , I would unlose a score of them for a groat . When the King had got these letters read , And found the truth was very so ; I warrant thee thou hast not forfeit thy lease , If thou had sell'd five asses more ; Aye every one can warrant me , But all their warrants are not worth a flay ; For he that troubles me and will not let me go , Neither cares for warrants of me nor you . Thou'st have and injunction said our King , From troubling you he will cease ; He'll either show the good cause why , Or else he'll let thee live in peace . What is that injunction said the poor man , Good sir to me I pray you say ; Why it is a let I'll cause to be written , But art thou so simple as thou seem'st today ? Why if it be a letter , I'm never the better , Kept it to thyself and trouble not me : I could have had a letter written cheaper at home And ne'er come out of my own country . Thou'st have and attachment said our King , Charge all thou seest to take thy part ; Till he pay thee and hundred pound , Before thou never let him start . If any seem against thee to stand Besure thou come hither straightway , Ay marry is that all I'm get for my labour , Then I may come trotting every day . Thou art hard of Belief , then said our King , To please him with letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , With all my heart I'm give thee a shilling . I'll have none of thy shillings then said our King Man with thy money , God give thee wisdom . The country man threw it unto the king's bosom , And the money lay cold unto his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , Thou art a Carl something too bold ; Dost thou not see I am hight with bowling ; And the money next my skin is cold . I ne'er wist that before said the poor man , Before sick time as I came hither ; If the Lawyers in our country thought it so , They would not heap up so much together . The King order'd up his treasurer , And bade him fetch him twenty pound , If ever thy errand lie hereaway , I'll bear thy charges up and down . When the poor man saw the gold down tender'd For to receive it he was willing ; If I had thought the King bade so much gold , Beshrew my heart I had kept my shilling . The poor man god him home the next sunday , The Lawyer soon did him espy ; Oh sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor man , Though matter to the King , as I have tell ; I did as my neighbeur put into my head . And made a submission to him myself . What a de'il dost thou with the king , said the lawyer Could not neighbours and friends agree thee & me The de'il a neighbour or friend that I had , That would have been such a Dayman as he . He gin this to me but I know not how they call't But if the King's word be true to me , When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'll leave and let me be . He has gin this to me but I know not what 'tis But I charge you all to hold him fast ; Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go and tie him fast to a post . Mary God forbid the lawer he said , Then the attachment was read before them there ; Thou must needs something credit me , Till I go home and fetch some more . Credit , nay , that's it the King forbade , He bade if I god thee , I should the stay . The lawyer he paid him and hundred pound , In ready money before he went away . Would every lawyer were serv'd thus . From troubling poor men they would cease ; They'd either show them good cause why , Or else they'd let them live in peace . And thus I end my merry song . Which shows the poor man's simpleness , And the King's great mercy in righting wrongs , And the Lawyer's fraud and wickedness . ay ? Why if it be a letter , I'm never the better , Kept it to thyself and trouble not me : I could have had a letter written cheaper at home And ne'er come out of my own country . Thou'st have and attachment said our King , Charge all thou seest to take thy part ; Till he pay thee and hundred pound , Before thou never let him start . If any seem against thee to stand Besure thou come hither straightway , Ay marry is that all I'm get for my labour , Then I may come trotting every day . Thou art hard of Belief , then said our King , To please him with letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , With all my heart I'm give thee a shilling . I'll have none of thy shillings then said our King Man with thy money , God give thee wisdom . The country man threw it unto the king's bosom , And the money lay cold unto his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , Thou art a Carl something too bold ; Dost thou not see I am hight with bowling ; And the money next my skin is cold . I ne'er wist that before said the poor man , Before sick time as I came hither ; If the Lawyers in our country thought it so , They would not heap up so much together . The King order'd up his treasurer , And bade him fetch him twenty pound , If ever thy errand lie hereaway , I'll bear thy charges up and down . When the poor man saw the gold down tender'd For to receive it he was willing ; If I had thought the King bade so much gold , Beshrew my heart I had kept my shilling . The poor man god him home the next sunday , The Lawyer soon did him espy ; Oh sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor man , Though matter to the King , as I have tell ; I did as my neighbeur put into my head . And made a submission to him myself . What a de'il dost thou with the king , said the lawyer Could not neighbours and friends agree thee & me The de'il a neighbour or friend that I had , That would have been such a Dayman as he . He gin this to me but I know not how they call't But if the King's word be true to me , When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'll leave and let me be . He has gin this to me but I know not what 'tis But I charge you all to hold him fast ; Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go and tie him fast to a post . Mary God forbid the lawer he said , Then the attachment was read before them there ; Thou must needs something credit me , Till I go home and fetch some more . Credit , nay , that's it the King forbade , He bade if I god thee , I should the stay . The lawyer he paid him and hundred pound , In ready money before he went away . Would every lawyer were serv'd thus . From troubling poor men they would cease ; They'd either show them good cause why , Or else they'd let them live in peace . And thus I end my merry song . Which shows the poor man's simpleness , And the King's great mercy in righting wrongs , And the Lawyer's fraud and wickedness . 