A New Narrative of the Old Plot , BEING A New Ballad . To the Tune of , Some say the Papists had a Plot , etc I . WHen Traitors did at Popery rail , Because it taught Confession : When Bankrupts bawled for Property , And Bastards for Succession . II When Tony durst espouse the Cause , Spite of his Pox and Gou When Speaking W --------- is purged the House By spewing Members out . III . When H --------- tO a twy-faced Pamphlet wrote , The Emblem of his Soul : When Oats swore whom he pleased in's Plot , And reigned without Control . IV. When L --------- ce too lampooned the Court , And libeled Cats and Dogs : When Witnesses , like Mushrooms , sprung Out of the Irish Bogs . V. Then Perkin thought 'twas time to prove His Claim to Kingship fair ; And faith it's fit the Peoples Son Should be the Peoples Heir . VI . So filled with Zeal He and his Knight Caress and Court the Rout ; And my Lord Duke goes up and down To show his Grace about . VII . Tho F ---- Lord Gr ---- would not engage Upon that idle score ; For He would have a Commonwealth , As well as Common-whore . VIII . He envied his old Friend a Crown , But why I can't devise ; For's Grace had graced his Lordship's head With horns of noble Size . IX . Then Johnson wrote his Patrons Creed , A Doctrine fetched from Hell : 'Twas Christianlike to disobey , And Gospel to rebel . X. Julian's his Pattern and his Text ; A meaner Theam He scorns : First represents Him at the Desk , And then Apostate turns . XI . Like his , his Patrons Zeal grew high , The Exclusion to advance ; And the right Heir must be debarred , For fear of Room and France . XII . The Zealous Commons then resolved , ( And They knew what they did ) By whomsoever the King should fallen , The Papists throats should bleed . XIII . So murdering Poigniards off are slipped Into a guiltless hand : And Innocence is sacrificed , While Malefactors stand . XIV . By Hell's Assistance then they framed Their Damned Association : And Worthy Men , and Men Worthy , Divided all the Nation . XV . Fools oft and Madmen leave the less , And choose the greater evil : Thus They for fear of Popery , Run headlong to the Devil . XVI . At last these Loyal Souls propose To ease their Sovereign's Cares ; If He'll fit down , and first remove Their Jealousies and Fears . XVII . Just the old Trick and Sham Device Of Belzebub their Sire : He but fallen down and worship Them , They'll grant his hearts desire . XVIII . Nay Lives and Fortune's then shall be Entirely all his own ; If He will fairly once disclaim A Brother and a Crown . LONDON , Printed for Charles Corbet at the Oxford-Arms in Warwick-Lane , 1683. A New Narrative of the Old Plot , BEING A New Ballad . To the Tune of , Some say the Papists had a Plot , etc I . WHen Traitors did at Popery rail , Because it taught Confession : When Bankrupts bawled for Property , And Bastards for Succession . II When Tony durst espouse the Cause , Spite of his Pox and Gou When Speaking W --------- is purged the House By spewing Members out . III . When H --------- tO a twy-faced Pamphlet wrote , The Emblem of his Soul : When Oats swore whom he pleased in's Plot , And reigned without Control . IV. When L --------- ce too lampooned the Court , And libeled Cats and Dogs : When Witnesses , like Mushrooms , sprung Out of the Irish Bogs . V. Then Perkin thought 'twas time to prove His Claim to Kingship fair ; And faith it's fit the Peoples Son Should be the Peoples Heir . VI . So filled with Zeal He and his Knight Caress and Court the Rout ; And my Lord Duke goes up and down To show his Grace about . VII . Tho F ---- Lord Gr ---- would not engage Upon that idle score ; For He would have a Commonwealth , As well as Common-whore . VIII . He envied his old Friend a Crown , But why I can't devise ; For's Grace had graced his Lordship's head With horns of noble Size . IX . Then Johnson wrote his Patrons Creed , A Doctrine fetched from Hell : 'Twas Christianlike to disobey , And Gospel to rebel . X. Julian's his Pattern and his Text ; A meaner Theam He scorns : First represents Him at the Desk , And then Apostate turns . XI . Like his , his Patrons Zeal grew high , The Exclusion to advance ; And the right Heir must be debarred , For fear of Room and France . XII . The Zealous Commons then resolved , ( And They knew what they did ) By whomsoever the King should fallen , The Papists throats should bleed . XIII . So murdering Poigniards off are slipped Into a guiltless hand : And Innocence is sacrificed , While Malefactors stand . XIV . By Hell's Assistance then they framed Their Damned Association : And Worthy Men , and Men Worthy , Divided all the Nation . XV . Fools oft and Madmen leave the less , And choose the greater evil : Thus They for fear of Popery , Run headlong to the Devil . XVI . At last these Loyal Souls propose To ease their Sovereign's Cares ; If He'll fit down , and first remove Their Jealousies and Fears . XVII . Just the old Trick and Sham Device Of Belzebub their Sire : He but fallen down and worship Them , They'll grant his hearts desire . XVIII . Nay Lives and Fortune's then shall be Entirely all his own ; If He will fairly once disclaim A Brother and a Crown . LONDON , Printed for Charles Corbet at the Oxford-Arms in Warwick-Lane , 1683. 