Englands Tribute of Tears , On the Death of his Grace the DUKE of GRAFTON , Who received his Mortal Wound at the Siege of the City of Cork in Ireland , on the 9th . of October , 1690. Tune is , The Watch for a Wise Man's Observation : Or , Aim not too high . UNwelcome Tidings overspreads the Land , The Great , the Wise , the Just do weeping stand ; What is the cause of Loyal Subject's Tears , Those Cries and Sorrows which invade our Ears . What Castles , Towns or Cities have we lost , Or hath the Rebels our good purpose crossed ? Or hath our Valiant Warlike-Troops misled Oh! no , the grief is that Great Grafton's dead . Renowned Hero , whose unhappy Fate Untimely Death his Days did terminate ; Whose boiling Blood , like to the early Spring , Ambitious was to serve his Royal King . Insulting Death , thus daring to surprise So great a Soul , could nothing less suffice Thy famish'd Jaws , but such a Hero bold , Who scorn'd by Rebels for to be controul'd : And did the greatest hazards freely run , And by his mighty Arm great things has done ; The Monuments and Rolls of lasting Fame , Shall Crown his Courage , Conduct , and his Name . The warlike Grafton did no labour spare , A Loyal Heart he in his Breast did bear ; Resolving still King William's Cause to fight 'Gainst France and Rome that wou'd oppose his right . The Dutch and French when they were both Engaged , He see the odds , which made him soon Enraged ; And coming up , he did the French destroy , Thus killed the Monsieur and the poor Dear-Joy . And thus the Fleet of France was forc'd to fly , While Dutch and English , Crown'd with Victory , Did fill the Enemy with dread and fear , His true Heroic Courage did appear . And thus his Loyal Soul still promp'd him too The Irish Rebels , them for to pursue ; And to Chastise them for their Villainy , Against King Williams Crown and Dignity . Unto the Siege of Cork he Marched with speed , Thus while he did his Warlike Forces led , The Fates upon our Valiant Hero frown'd , For in this Battle he received a Wound , Whereof he Dy'd , well may the Nation Mourn , And all in tears pay Tribute to his Urn. His Life he lost , Religion to maintain , And we shall never behold him here again . In a Religious Cause it was he fell , Therefore we hope his Loyal Soul will dwell among blessed Saints and Angels , to enjoy True Bliss , where Mortal Cares can't him annoy . All State and Glory of this present Life , Encumber [ ' ] worser is with trouble , care and strife ; On Fortune's restless Waves we often steer , Meeting with many Disappointments here . But happy is the Man that here can make His Peace before the world he does forsake , As this most Noble Duke we know has done , His Eyes with true Repenting tears did run . We must acknowledge Trouble he went through , Yet like a Lamb he bid the world adieu ; And Angel did Conduct him on their Wings , As a Rich Present to the King of Kings . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-britain . Englands Tribute of Tears , On the Death of his Grace the DUKE of GRAFTON , Who received his Mortal Wound at the Siege of the City of Cork in Ireland , on the 9th . of October , 1690. Tune is , The Watch for a Wise Man's Observation : Or , Aim not too high . UNwelcome Tidings overspreads the Land , The Great , the Wise , the Just do weeping stand ; What is the cause of Loyal Subject's Tears , Those Cries and Sorrows which invade our Ears . What Castles , Towns or Cities have we lost , Or hath the Rebels our good purpose crossed ? Or hath our Valiant Warlike-Troops misled Oh! no , the grief is that Great Grafton's dead . Renowned Hero , whose unhappy Fate Untimely Death his Days did terminate ; Whose boiling Blood , like to the early Spring , Ambitious was to serve his Royal King . Insulting Death , thus daring to surprise So great a Soul , could nothing less suffice Thy famish'd Jaws , but such a Hero bold , Who scorn'd by Rebels for to be controul'd : And did the greatest hazards freely run , And by his mighty Arm great things has done ; The Monuments and Rolls of lasting Fame , Shall Crown his Courage , Conduct , and his Name . The warlike Grafton did no labour spare , A Loyal Heart he in his Breast did bear ; Resolving still King William's Cause to fight 'Gainst France and Rome that wou'd oppose his right . The Dutch and French when they were both Engaged , He see the odds , which made him soon Enraged ; And coming up , he did the French destroy , Thus killed the Monsieur and the poor Dear-Joy . And thus the Fleet of France was forc'd to fly , While Dutch and English , Crown'd with Victory , Did fill the Enemy with dread and fear , His true Heroic Courage did appear . And thus his Loyal Soul still promp'd him too The Irish Rebels , them for to pursue ; And to Chastise them for their Villainy , Against King Williams Crown and Dignity . Unto the Siege of Cork he Marched with speed , Thus while he did his Warlike Forces led , The Fates upon our Valiant Hero frown'd , For in this Battle he received a Wound , Whereof he Dy'd , well may the Nation Mourn , And all in tears pay Tribute to his Urn. His Life he lost , Religion to maintain , And we shall never behold him here again . In a Religious Cause it was he fell , Therefore we hope his Loyal Soul will dwell among blessed Saints and Angels , to enjoy True Bliss , where Mortal Cares can't him annoy . All State and Glory of this present Life , Encumber [ ' ] worser is with trouble , care and strife ; On Fortune's restless Waves we often steer , Meeting with many Disappointments here . But happy is the Man that here can make His Peace before the world he does forsake , As this most Noble Duke we know has done , His Eyes with true Repenting tears did run . We must acknowledge Trouble he went through , Yet like a Lamb he bid the world adieu ; And Angel did Conduct him on their Wings , As a Rich Present to the King of Kings . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-britain . 