And ANSWER to The Shepherd's Happiness ; Or , The Successful Warrior in less Danger than the Shepherd Swain . To a Pleasant New Tune , Sung in the last New Opera . Licensed according to Order . WHy are the Shepherd's more Happy than Princes , tell me young Gallants of Glory and Fame ? War may expose you to Death and Expenses , and he that Conquers , the World will proclaim A Royal Monarch , whose Deeds are Recorded ; Thus they with Kingdoms and Crowns are rewarded . 2. While the young innocent Lambs we are feeding , with a mean Bottle and Bag by our side ; The Valiant Hero and Army is leading , aiming at Trophies of Honour and Pride : f we are Master's of innocent pleasure , They are invested with Glory and Treasure . 3. Drums they are beating , while Trumpets are sounding , to cheer the hearts of the Valiant and Brave ; And while the insolent Foes they are Wounding , whole Ranks and Regiments are sent to the Grave , Sweetly displaying their Majesties Banner , While the poor Shepherd has none of this Honour . 4. Princes of AEurope with Triumph attended , and flying Colours have taken the Field ; While their true Valour was daily extended , to make the proudest of Enemies yield : What greater Glory can Mortals desire , Than when in flight they make their Foes retire ? 5. Alas ! the Shepherd enjoys no such Blessing , on Reeden Pipes we in Consort may Play ; The Warlike Trumpet's a far sweeter Lesson , while flying Colours in Field they display : We by the Frowns of fair Silvia , lie Dying , While on the Wings of Fame Soldiers are flying . 6. In silent Valleys we Shepherd's are Wounded , where neither Cannon nor Sword does appear ; We with young beautiful Nymphs are surrounded , whose Eyes darts Arrows both sharp and severe ; While little Cupid continues a Ranger , Shepherd's are no ways excluded from Danger . 7. Thus Charming Beauty's which Shepherd's admire , often requite us with Scorn and Disdain ; Languishing then we in Sorrow expire , while against Silvia we sighs and complain : Leaving behind us some sorrowful Story , Which Soldiers never do who Fight for Glory . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . And ANSWER to The Shepherd's Happiness ; Or , The Successful Warrior in less Danger than the Shepherd Swain . To a Pleasant New Tune , Sung in the last New Opera . Licensed according to Order . WHy are the Shepherd's more Happy than Princes , tell me young Gallants of Glory and Fame ? War may expose you to Death and Expenses , and he that Conquers , the World will proclaim A Royal Monarch , whose Deeds are Recorded ; Thus they with Kingdoms and Crowns are rewarded . 2. While the young innocent Lambs we are feeding , with a mean Bottle and Bag by our side ; The Valiant Hero and Army is leading , aiming at Trophies of Honour and Pride : f we are Master's of innocent pleasure , They are invested with Glory and Treasure . 3. Drums they are beating , while Trumpets are sounding , to cheer the hearts of the Valiant and Brave ; And while the insolent Foes they are Wounding , whole Ranks and Regiments are sent to the Grave , Sweetly displaying their Majesties Banner , While the poor Shepherd has none of this Honour . 4. Princes of AEurope with Triumph attended , and flying Colours have taken the Field ; While their true Valour was daily extended , to make the proudest of Enemies yield : What greater Glory can Mortals desire , Than when in flight they make their Foes retire ? 5. Alas ! the Shepherd enjoys no such Blessing , on Reeden Pipes we in Consort may Play ; The Warlike Trumpet's a far sweeter Lesson , while flying Colours in Field they display : We by the Frowns of fair Silvia , lie Dying , While on the Wings of Fame Soldiers are flying . 6. In silent Valleys we Shepherd's are Wounded , where neither Cannon nor Sword does appear ; We with young beautiful Nymphs are surrounded , whose Eyes darts Arrows both sharp and severe ; While little Cupid continues a Ranger , Shepherd's are no ways excluded from Danger . 7. Thus Charming Beauty's which Shepherd's admire , often requite us with Scorn and Disdain ; Languishing then we in Sorrow expire , while against Silvia we sighs and complain : Leaving behind us some sorrowful Story , Which Soldiers never do who Fight for Glory . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 