The Lady's Tragedy ; OR , The Languishing Lamentation of a London Merchant's Daughter , who died for Love of a Linen Draper . To the Tune of The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . WHy is my Love unkind ? why do's he leave me ? Why do's he change his mind , and strive to grieve me ? He hath some fair One found , this I discover , And therefore seeks to wound his loyal Lover . I called to mind the Vow which once he made me : Can he forget it now , and thus degrade me ? Yes like a Wretch he can , and flatter many , There's no belief in Man , no not in any . They Serpent-lke deceive young silly Women ; Who can their Oaths believe , since it is common For them to swear and lie when they are brewing The grandest Villainy to prove our Ruin ? When at my Feet he fell , and did implore me , His Sorrows to expel , seemed to adore me : I out of mere Goodwill , bemoaned his Ditty ; Kind Hearts must suffer still ; the more's the pity . While he sad Sighs did fetch , just as if dying , His Hand to me he'd stretch , often replying , Your Rocky Heart of Stone feels no relenting , Though for your sake alone , I lie lamenting . Down from his melting Eyes Tears they were flowing , As he with feigned Cries said , I am going To the Elizium Shade , where Lovers wander , Whose Lives have been betrayed , Hearts rend in sunder . This said , My Heart did bleed , and melt within me ; To him I ran with speed , his Words did win me : Straightway I granted Love , and Pledges gave him ; Rather than guilty prove , I'ld die to save him . Thus from his wretched State did I restore him ; But Oh unhappy Fate ! I fallen before him ; In Chains of Love I lie , loaded with anguish ; Now let me , let me die , why should I languish ! Why did I not , when born , my Breath surrender , Rather than bear the Scorn of my Pretender ! The torment which I feel this very hour , Alas ! I would conceal , but ha'ned the power . The News to him will go , how I lamented ; Which he should never know , could I prevent it ? He that could cringe and bow first to enjoy me , Then strive , and study how he might destroy me . Farewell my Parents dear , Father , and Mother ; You'll loose your Darling dear , though you have no other : Yet never weep for me , since I am going Where Joys shall ever be like Fountains flowing . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street . The Lady's Tragedy ; OR , The Languishing Lamentation of a London Merchant's Daughter , who died for Love of a Linen Draper . To the Tune of The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . WHy is my Love unkind ? why do's he leave me ? Why do's he change his mind , and strive to grieve me ? He hath some fair One found , this I discover , And therefore seeks to wound his loyal Lover . I called to mind the Vow which once he made me : Can he forget it now , and thus degrade me ? Yes like a Wretch he can , and flatter many , There's no belief in Man , no not in any . They Serpent-lke deceive young silly Women ; Who can their Oaths believe , since it is common For them to swear and lie when they are brewing The grandest Villainy to prove our Ruin ? When at my Feet he fell , and did implore me , His Sorrows to expel , seemed to adore me : I out of mere Goodwill , bemoaned his Ditty ; Kind Hearts must suffer still ; the more's the pity . While he sad Sighs did fetch , just as if dying , His Hand to me he'd stretch , often replying , Your Rocky Heart of Stone feels no relenting , Though for your sake alone , I lie lamenting . Down from his melting Eyes Tears they were flowing , As he with feigned Cries said , I am going To the Elizium Shade , where Lovers wander , Whose Lives have been betrayed , Hearts rend in sunder . This said , My Heart did bleed , and melt within me ; To him I ran with speed , his Words did win me : Straightway I granted Love , and Pledges gave him ; Rather than guilty prove , I'ld die to save him . Thus from his wretched State did I restore him ; But Oh unhappy Fate ! I fallen before him ; In Chains of Love I lie , loaded with anguish ; Now let me , let me die , why should I languish ! Why did I not , when born , my Breath surrender , Rather than bear the Scorn of my Pretender ! The torment which I feel this very hour , Alas ! I would conceal , but ha'ned the power . The News to him will go , how I lamented ; Which he should never know , could I prevent it ? He that could cringe and bow first to enjoy me , Then strive , and study how he might destroy me . Farewell my Parents dear , Father , and Mother ; You'll loose your Darling dear , though you have no other : Yet never weep for me , since I am going Where Joys shall ever be like Fountains flowing . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street . 