THE Faithful Lovers of the West . Come join with me all you that Love , And faithful to each other prove : Example take by this my Song , All you that stand within this Throng . To the Tune of , As I walked forth to take the Air . By William Blunten . WHy should I thus complain , on thee So cruelly thou murderest me , For unto thee it is well known , Thou art the Maid I love alone , In none but thee I take delight , I think on thee both day and night ; I give to thee my heart away , Do not with hatred me repay , When first thy sweet face I did see , I thought thot none was like to thee ; I wish I had not seen the day , When first thou stolest my heart away . Hard is thy heart , harder then steel , Colder then Ice , that frost congeal ; How many thousand times does make , My heart to bleed for thy sweet sake . I was forewarned by thine eyes , Of thy most killing Cruelties , But Cupid hath so blinded me , Now I shall die for love of thee ; But Oh how good had been my case , That I had never seen thy face , My captive heart had then been free , But now I can love none but thee . When I am dead , this thou wilt say , That I have cast my love away ; Too late it'll be then to complain , If that you do , it's all in vain . Therefore my dearest Love comply , And ease me of this cruelty ; Let not me die in this despair , But grant thy love to me my dear . The Maids Answer . DOubt not my Love , nor do not fear , Thou art the man that I love dear , I did but try thy constancy , For I do love no man but thee . Then grieve no more , nor yet complain , Thy love to me is not in vain : For constant I will ever be , And I do lout no man but thee . Wy shouldst thou say thy heart will break And all for love of my sweet sake , I constant to thee still will prove , As ever was the Turtle-Dove . Nothing shall part my Love and I , Until the very day we die : We'll live in love , and so agree , As man and wife they ought to be . The Young-Mans Answer . O thanks be to the Heaven above , Now I have gained my dearest Love , Thy words does me so much revive , I am the happiest man alive . Come let us to the Church away , And married be without delay : Although our Portions be but small , True love is better worth then all . So hand in hand away they went , And had their parents free consen The music then most sweet did play , And thus ended their Wedding day . Youngmen and maids in love agree , And let these song a pattern be : The price you know it is but small , A penny a piece , and take them all . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . THE Faithful Lovers of the West . Come join with me all you that Love , And faithful to each other prove : Example take by this my Song , All you that stand within this Throng . To the Tune of , As I walked forth to take the Air . By William Blunten . WHy should I thus complain , on thee So cruelly thou murderest me , For unto thee it is well known , Thou art the Maid I love alone , In none but thee I take delight , I think on thee both day and night ; I give to thee my heart away , Do not with hatred me repay , When first thy sweet face I did see , I thought thot none was like to thee ; I wish I had not seen the day , When first thou stolest my heart away . Hard is thy heart , harder then steel , Colder then Ice , that frost congeal ; How many thousand times does make , My heart to bleed for thy sweet sake . I was forewarned by thine eyes , Of thy most killing Cruelties , But Cupid hath so blinded me , Now I shall die for love of thee ; But Oh how good had been my case , That I had never seen thy face , My captive heart had then been free , But now I can love none but thee . When I am dead , this thou wilt say , That I have cast my love away ; Too late it'll be then to complain , If that you do , it's all in vain . Therefore my dearest Love comply , And ease me of this cruelty ; Let not me die in this despair , But grant thy love to me my dear . The Maids Answer . DOubt not my Love , nor do not fear , Thou art the man that I love dear , I did but try thy constancy , For I do love no man but thee . Then grieve no more , nor yet complain , Thy love to me is not in vain : For constant I will ever be , And I do lout no man but thee . Wy shouldst thou say thy heart will break And all for love of my sweet sake , I constant to thee still will prove , As ever was the Turtle-Dove . Nothing shall part my Love and I , Until the very day we die : We'll live in love , and so agree , As man and wife they ought to be . The Young-Mans Answer . O thanks be to the Heaven above , Now I have gained my dearest Love , Thy words does me so much revive , I am the happiest man alive . Come let us to the Church away , And married be without delay : Although our Portions be but small , True love is better worth then all . So hand in hand away they went , And had their parents free consen The music then most sweet did play , And thus ended their Wedding day . Youngmen and maids in love agree , And let these song a pattern be : The price you know it is but small , A penny a piece , and take them all . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 