A New Ballad of St. George and the Dragon . WHy should we boast of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men have performed Fights ; Or why should we speak of Sir Lancelot du Lake , Or Sir Tristrum du Leon , that fought for Ladies sake , Read old Stories and there you shall see , How St. George , St. George , he made the Dragon flee ; St. George he was for England , St. Denis was for France , Sing , Honey soit qui maly pence . To speak of Monarchs it were too long to tell , And likewise of the Roman how far they did excel : Hanibal and Scipio in many a field did fight ; Orlando Furioso he was a valiant Knight ; Romulus and Rhemus were those that Room did built , But St. George , St George the Dragon he hath killed : St. George he was for England , etc Jeptha and Gideon they led their Men to fight , The Gibbonites and Ammonites they put them all to flight ; Hercules his Labour was in the Vale of Bass ; And Sampson slew a thousand with the Jawbone of and Ass ; And when that he was blind , pulled the Temple to the ground ; But St. George , St. George the Dragon did confound : St. George he was for England , etc Valentine and Orson they came of Pepin's Blood , Alfred and Aldricus they were brave Knights and good ; The four Sons of Ammon that fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Burdeaux and Godfry de Bullaign , These were all French Knights , the Pagans did convert , But St. George , St. George he pulled out the Dragon's hear St. George he was for England , etc Henry the Fifth , he conquered all France , He quartered their Arms , his Honour to advance , He raced their Walls , and pulled their Cities down , And he garnished his Head with a double triple Crown , He thumped the French , and after home he came ; But St. George , St. George he made the Dragon tame : St. George he was for England , etc Sing , Honi soit qui maly pence . St. David you know loves Leeks and toasted Cheese , And Jafan was the Man brought home the Golden Fleece , And Patrick you know he was St. George's Boy , Seven Years he kept his Horse , and then stole him away , For which Knavish Act , a Slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George the Dragon he hath slave : St. George he was for England , etc Tamberlin the Emperor in Iron-cage did Crown , With his bloody Flags displayed before the Town ; Scanderbig Magnanimous Mahomet's Bashaw did dread , Whose victorious Bones were worn when he was dead , His Beglerbegs his corn-like-dreds , George Castriot was he called ; But St. George , St. George the Dragon he hath mauled : St. George he was for England , etc Ottamon the Tartar he came of Persia's Raze , The great Mogul with his Chest so full of all his Cloves and Mace , The Grecian Youth Bucefalus he manfully did bestride , But these with their Worthies nine , St. George did them deride ; Gustaphus Adolphus was Swedland's Warlike King ; But St. George , St. George he pulled forth the Dragon's sting : St. George he was for England , etc Poldragon and Cadwallader of British Blood do boast , Though John of Gaunt his Foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the roast ; Agamemnon and Clemedon and Macedon did Feats , But compared to our Champion , they are but merely Cheats ; Brave Malta Knights . in Turkish Fights , their brandished Swords out drew ; But St. George , St. George met the Dragon , and run him through and through ; St. George he was for England , etc Bidia the Amazon , Poetus overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Sarazen or Jew ; The Potent Holophernus as he lay in his bed , In came Wise Judith and subtly stole his Head. Brave Cyclops stout , with Jove he fought , although he shower down Thunder ; But St. George killed the Dragon , and was not that a Wonder ? St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony I'll warrant you played Feats with Egypt's Queen ; Sir Eglamore that valiant Knight , the like was never seen ; Grim Gorgon's Might was known in fight ; old Bevis most Men frighted , The Mermidons & Prester Johns , why were not these Men knighted ? Brave Spinoa took in Breda , NASSAW did it Recover : But St. George , St. George turned the Dragon over and over : St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , Sing , Honi soit qui maly pence . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by J. Blare , on London-bridge . A New Ballad of St. George and the Dragon . WHy should we boast of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men have performed Fights ; Or why should we speak of Sir Lancelot du Lake , Or Sir Tristrum du Leon , that fought for Ladies sake , Read old Stories and there you shall see , How St. George , St. George , he made the Dragon flee ; St. George he was for England , St. Denis was for France , Sing , Honey soit qui maly pence . To speak of Monarchs it were too long to tell , And likewise of the Roman how far they did excel : Hanibal and Scipio in many a field did fight ; Orlando Furioso he was a valiant Knight ; Romulus and Rhemus were those that Room did built , But St. George , St George the Dragon he hath killed : St. George he was for England , etc Jeptha and Gideon they led their Men to fight , The Gibbonites and Ammonites they put them all to flight ; Hercules his Labour was in the Vale of Bass ; And Sampson slew a thousand with the Jawbone of and Ass ; And when that he was blind , pulled the Temple to the ground ; But St. George , St. George the Dragon did confound : St. George he was for England , etc Valentine and Orson they came of Pepin's Blood , Alfred and Aldricus they were brave Knights and good ; The four Sons of Ammon that fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Burdeaux and Godfry de Bullaign , These were all French Knights , the Pagans did convert , But St. George , St. George he pulled out the Dragon's hear St. George he was for England , etc Henry the Fifth , he conquered all France , He quartered their Arms , his Honour to advance , He raced their Walls , and pulled their Cities down , And he garnished his Head with a double triple Crown , He thumped the French , and after home he came ; But St. George , St. George he made the Dragon tame : St. George he was for England , etc Sing , Honi soit qui maly pence . St. David you know loves Leeks and toasted Cheese , And Jafan was the Man brought home the Golden Fleece , And Patrick you know he was St. George's Boy , Seven Years he kept his Horse , and then stole him away , For which Knavish Act , a Slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George the Dragon he hath slave : St. George he was for England , etc Tamberlin the Emperor in Iron-cage did Crown , With his bloody Flags displayed before the Town ; Scanderbig Magnanimous Mahomet's Bashaw did dread , Whose victorious Bones were worn when he was dead , His Beglerbegs his corn-like-dreds , George Castriot was he called ; But St. George , St. George the Dragon he hath mauled : St. George he was for England , etc Ottamon the Tartar he came of Persia's Raze , The great Mogul with his Chest so full of all his Cloves and Mace , The Grecian Youth Bucefalus he manfully did bestride , But these with their Worthies nine , St. George did them deride ; Gustaphus Adolphus was Swedland's Warlike King ; But St. George , St. George he pulled forth the Dragon's sting : St. George he was for England , etc Poldragon and Cadwallader of British Blood do boast , Though John of Gaunt his Foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the roast ; Agamemnon and Clemedon and Macedon did Feats , But compared to our Champion , they are but merely Cheats ; Brave Malta Knights . in Turkish Fights , their brandished Swords out drew ; But St. George , St. George met the Dragon , and run him through and through ; St. George he was for England , etc Bidia the Amazon , Poetus overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Sarazen or Jew ; The Potent Holophernus as he lay in his bed , In came Wise Judith and subtly stole his Head. Brave Cyclops stout , with Jove he fought , although he shower down Thunder ; But St. George killed the Dragon , and was not that a Wonder ? St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony I'll warrant you played Feats with Egypt's Queen ; Sir Eglamore that valiant Knight , the like was never seen ; Grim Gorgon's Might was known in fight ; old Bevis most Men frighted , The Mermidons & Prester Johns , why were not these Men knighted ? Brave Spinoa took in Breda , NASSAW did it Recover : But St. George , St. George turned the Dragon over and over : St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , Sing , Honi soit qui maly pence . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by J. Blare , on London-bridge . 