THE The Lovesick Soldier . OR , THE Valiant Commander conquered by the Powerful Charms of Fair Cynthias Matchless Beauty , To which is Added , her kind Answer . Tune of , No , no poor suffering heart . Licensed according to Order . I . WHy did the God of love wound a Commander , Who strives to soar above great Alexander , In Warlike deeds of arms , as it's required , Loves found alluring charms I never admired ; All wronged Kings to right was my ambition , In whose just cause I'ld fight , being in commission , I have made Heroes bow still fearing no man , But I am conquered now by a fair woman . II When Cannons they have roa'rd like claps of Thunder . And my unconquered sword hath cleft asunder , The Helmets of the great , and laid them bleeding , I by the hand of fate have been exceeding , Successful in the field , Kings did adore me , I have made Armies yield , and fly before me , This I did some years passed in point of duty , But now I fallen at last by Cynthias beauty . III . There is no Enemy like a coy lover , She gains the victory while I discover Nothing but charming sweet , which does delight me , But if my Foe I meet , and that he'd fight me , My sword should clear the way , and purchase honour , But ah ! what shall I say I dote upon her , I languish by degrees , grief is ensuing , Thus with a greater ease she proves my ruin . IV. No weapon can compare with Cupid's Arrow , Strong walls no bulwarks are , they enter through , Breastplate and coat of Male cannot defend me , His arrows never fail which he does send me , But wound me to the heart , farewell to pleasure , My sorrow , care , and smart is out of measure , Cupid he stands aloof me to devour , There is no Armour proof against his power , V. Fair Creature hear my cries , my mournful ditty , Let thy bright Angel eyes look down in pity , Grant me one pleasant smile , for I adore thee , And as a captive slave I fallen before thee , In hope's to find relief this wound you gave me , And it is you alone can kill or save me , Ler thy Commander be with joys delighted , True love and loyalty should not be slighted . Cynthias Kind Answer . SHe finds him all alone , and cried my Jewel , Seace thy lamenting moan , I'll not be cruel , Though I the wound might give , it sha'ned destroy thee , My smiles shall make thee live while I enjoy thee , Take here this melting kiss nothing shall grieve thee , Here in these arms of mine I will receive thee , A heart of loyalty here I surrender , And vow to live or die with my Commander . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . THE The Lovesick Soldier . OR , THE Valiant Commander conquered by the Powerful Charms of Fair Cynthias Matchless Beauty , To which is Added , her kind Answer . Tune of , No , no poor suffering heart . Licensed according to Order . I . WHy did the God of love wound a Commander , Who strives to soar above great Alexander , In Warlike deeds of arms , as it's required , Loves found alluring charms I never admired ; All wronged Kings to right was my ambition , In whose just cause I'ld fight , being in commission , I have made Heroes bow still fearing no man , But I am conquered now by a fair woman . II When Cannons they have roa'rd like claps of Thunder . And my unconquered sword hath cleft asunder , The Helmets of the great , and laid them bleeding , I by the hand of fate have been exceeding , Successful in the field , Kings did adore me , I have made Armies yield , and fly before me , This I did some years passed in point of duty , But now I fallen at last by Cynthias beauty . III . There is no Enemy like a coy lover , She gains the victory while I discover Nothing but charming sweet , which does delight me , But if my Foe I meet , and that he'd fight me , My sword should clear the way , and purchase honour , But ah ! what shall I say I dote upon her , I languish by degrees , grief is ensuing , Thus with a greater ease she proves my ruin . IV. No weapon can compare with Cupid's Arrow , Strong walls no bulwarks are , they enter through , Breastplate and coat of Male cannot defend me , His arrows never fail which he does send me , But wound me to the heart , farewell to pleasure , My sorrow , care , and smart is out of measure , Cupid he stands aloof me to devour , There is no Armour proof against his power , V. Fair Creature hear my cries , my mournful ditty , Let thy bright Angel eyes look down in pity , Grant me one pleasant smile , for I adore thee , And as a captive slave I fallen before thee , In hope's to find relief this wound you gave me , And it is you alone can kill or save me , Ler thy Commander be with joys delighted , True love and loyalty should not be slighted . Cynthias Kind Answer . SHe finds him all alone , and cried my Jewel , Seace thy lamenting moan , I'll not be cruel , Though I the wound might give , it sha'ned destroy thee , My smiles shall make thee live while I enjoy thee , Take here this melting kiss nothing shall grieve thee , Here in these arms of mine I will receive thee , A heart of loyalty here I surrender , And vow to live or die with my Commander . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 