( 1 ) A BALLAD ON THE BATTLE OF THE Two DUKES . 1 TO Lordings proud I tune my Song , Who feast in Bower or Hall ; Though Dukes you be , to Dukes I say , That Pride shall have a Fallen . 2 Now that this same it is right sooth Full plainly does appear , From what befell John Duke of Guise And Neck of Lancastere . 3 When Richard ( Coeur de Lyon ) reign'd ( Which means a Lyon's Heart ) Like him his Barons rag'd and roar'd , Each play'd a Lyon's part . 4 A Word and Blow was then enough , Such Honour did them prick , If you but turn'd your Cheek , a Cuff ; And if your A --- s , a Kick . 5 Look in their Face they tweak'd your Nose , At every turn fell to't ; Come near they trod upon your Toes , They fought from Head to Foot . 6 Of these the Duke of Lancastere Stood Paramount in Pride , He Kick'd and Cuff'd , and tweak'd and trodden His Foes and Friends beside . 7 Firm on his Front his Beaver sat So broad it hid his Chin ; For why , he deem'd no Man his Mate , And scorn'd to tann his Skin . 8 With Spanish Wool he dy'd his Cheeks , With Essence oiled his Hair ; No Vixon Civet-Cat more sweet , Nor more could scratch and tear . 9 Right tall he made himself to show , Though made full short by God , And when that other Dukes did bow , This Duke did only nod . 10 Yet courteous , blithe , and Debonair , To Guise's Duke was He ; Was never such a Loving pair , Why did they disagree ? 11 O thus it was , He lov'd him dear , And cast how to requite him ; But having no Friend left but this , He deem'd it meet to fight him : 12 Forthwith he drench'd his desp'rate Quill And thus He did indite , This Eve at Whisk Our Self will play , Sir Duke , be here to Night . 13 Ah No , Ah No , the Guileless Guise Demurely did reply , I cannot go , nor yet can stand , So soar the Gout have I . 14 The Duke in Wrath call'd for his Steeds , And fiercely drove them on ; Lord , Lord , how rattled then the Stones , O Kinglike Kensington ! 15. All ( 2 ) 15 All in a Trice on Guise he rush'd , Thrust out his Lady dear , He tweak'd his Nose , trod on his Toes , And smote him on the Ear . 16 But mark how midst of Victory Fate plays and Old Dog Trick , Up leap'd Duke John and knock'd him down , And so down fell Duke Neck . 17 Alas ! O Neck , Oh Nicholas ! Right did thy Gossips call thee ; As who should say , alas the Day When John of Guise shall maul thee . 18 For on thee did He clap his Chair , And on that Chair did fit , And look'd as if He meant therein To do what was not fit . 19 Up didst thou look , o woeful Duke ! Thy Mouth yet durst not open , Certes for Fear of finding there A TO --- worser instead of Trope . 20 Lie there thou Caitiff vile , quoth Guise , No Sheet is here to save thee , The Casement it is shut likewise , Beneath my Foot I have thee . 21 If thou hast ought to say now speak . Then Lancastere did Cry , Know'st thou not me nor yet thyself , What thou , and what am I ? 22 Know'st thou not me who , God be prais'd , Have Brawl'd and Quarrel'd more Than all the Line of Lancastere That Battel'd heretofore . 23 In Senates fam'd for many a Speech And what some awe must give you Tho' now laid low beneath thy Breech Still of the C ---------- Privy . 24 Still of the WORSER --------- Chancellor , Durante Life I have it ; And turn , as now thou dost on me , My A -- s on those that gave it . 25 But now the Servants they rush'd in , And Duke Neck up leap'd He , I will not Cope against such Odds , But Guise I'll Fight with thee . 26 To Morrow with thee I will Fight Under the Green-Wood-Tree . No not to Morrow but to Night , Quoth Guise , I'll meet with thee . 27 And now the Sun declining low Bestreak'd with Blood the Skies , When with his Sword at Saddle Bow Road forth the valiant Guise . 28 Full gently pranc'd He o're the Down And rowl'd his Eye around , And from his Stirrup stretched to find Who was not to be found . 29 Long brandish'd He his Blade in Air , Long look'd the Field all o're , At length He spy'd the merry Men brown And eke the Coach and Four . 30 From out the Boot bold Nicholas Did wave his Hand so white , As pointing out the gloomy Glade Whereas He meant to fight . 31 All in that dreadful Hour so calm Was Lancastere to see , As if he meant to take the Air , Or only take a Fee . 32 And so He did ; for to Pump-Court His Strolling Wheels did run , Not that He shun'd the doubtful Strife , But Business must be done . 33 Back in the dark by Brompton-Park He turn'd up thro' the Gore , So struck to Camden House so high , All in his Coach and Four . 34 Meanwhile the Guise did fret and fume A Sighed it was to see Benumb'd beneath the Evening Dews Under the Green Wood Tree . 25 Then wet and weary home He far'd Soar muttering all the way , If e're I meet him Neck shall rue The Cudgel of that Day . 36 Mean time on every Pissing Post I'll Past this Recreant's Name , So every Passer-by shall read And Piss against the same . 37 God save the King and grant more Wit Unto his Nobles all , To learn this Lesson from Duke Neck , That Pride will have a Fallen . ( 1 ) A BALLAD ON THE BATTLE OF THE Two DUKES . 1 TO Lordings proud I tune my Song , Who feast in Bower or Hall ; Though Dukes you be , to Dukes I say , That Pride shall have a Fallen . 2 Now that this same it is right sooth Full plainly does appear , From what befell John Duke of Guise And Neck of Lancastere . 3 When Richard ( Coeur de Lyon ) reign'd ( Which means a Lyon's Heart ) Like him his Barons rag'd and roar'd , Each play'd a Lyon's part . 4 A Word and Blow was then enough , Such Honour did them prick , If you but turn'd your Cheek , a Cuff ; And if your A --- s , a Kick . 5 Look in their Face they tweak'd your Nose , At every turn fell to't ; Come near they trod upon your Toes , They fought from Head to Foot . 6 Of these the Duke of Lancastere Stood Paramount in Pride , He Kick'd and Cuff'd , and tweak'd and trodden His Foes and Friends beside . 7 Firm on his Front his Beaver sat So broad it hid his Chin ; For why , he deem'd no Man his Mate , And scorn'd to tann his Skin . 8 With Spanish Wool he dy'd his Cheeks , With Essence oiled his Hair ; No Vixon Civet-Cat more sweet , Nor more could scratch and tear . 9 Right tall he made himself to show , Though made full short by God , And when that other Dukes did bow , This Duke did only nod . 10 Yet courteous , blithe , and Debonair , To Guise's Duke was He ; Was never such a Loving pair , Why did they disagree ? 11 O thus it was , He lov'd him dear , And cast how to requite him ; But having no Friend left but this , He deem'd it meet to fight him : 12 Forthwith he drench'd his desp'rate Quill And thus He did indite , This Eve at Whisk Our Self will play , Sir Duke , be here to Night . 13 Ah No , Ah No , the Guileless Guise Demurely did reply , I cannot go , nor yet can stand , So soar the Gout have I . 14 The Duke in Wrath call'd for his Steeds , And fiercely drove them on ; Lord , Lord , how rattled then the Stones , O Kinglike Kensington ! 15. All ( 2 ) 15 All in a Trice on Guise he rush'd , Thrust out his Lady dear , He tweak'd his Nose , trod on his Toes , And smote him on the Ear . 16 But mark how midst of Victory Fate plays and Old Dog Trick , Up leap'd Duke John and knock'd him down , And so down fell Duke Neck . 17 Alas ! O Neck , Oh Nicholas ! Right did thy Gossips call thee ; As who should say , alas the Day When John of Guise shall maul thee . 18 For on thee did He clap his Chair , And on that Chair did fit , And look'd as if He meant therein To do what was not fit . 19 Up didst thou look , o woeful Duke ! Thy Mouth yet durst not open , Certes for Fear of finding there A TO --- worser instead of Trope . 20 Lie there thou Caitiff vile , quoth Guise , No Sheet is here to save thee , The Casement it is shut likewise , Beneath my Foot I have thee . 21 If thou hast ought to say now speak . Then Lancastere did Cry , Know'st thou not me nor yet thyself , What thou , and what am I ? 22 Know'st thou not me who , God be prais'd , Have Brawl'd and Quarrel'd more Than all the Line of Lancastere That Battel'd heretofore . 23 In Senates fam'd for many a Speech And what some awe must give you Tho' now laid low beneath thy Breech Still of the C ---------- Privy . 24 Still of the WORSER --------- Chancellor , Durante Life I have it ; And turn , as now thou dost on me , My A -- s on those that gave it . 25 But now the Servants they rush'd in , And Duke Neck up leap'd He , I will not Cope against such Odds , But Guise I'll Fight with thee . 26 To Morrow with thee I will Fight Under the Green-Wood-Tree . No not to Morrow but to Night , Quoth Guise , I'll meet with thee . 27 And now the Sun declining low Bestreak'd with Blood the Skies , When with his Sword at Saddle Bow Road forth the valiant Guise . 28 Full gently pranc'd He o're the Down And rowl'd his Eye around , And from his Stirrup stretched to find Who was not to be found . 29 Long brandish'd He his Blade in Air , Long look'd the Field all o're , At length He spy'd the merry Men brown And eke the Coach and Four . 30 From out the Boot bold Nicholas Did wave his Hand so white , As pointing out the gloomy Glade Whereas He meant to fight . 31 All in that dreadful Hour so calm Was Lancastere to see , As if he meant to take the Air , Or only take a Fee . 32 And so He did ; for to Pump-Court His Strolling Wheels did run , Not that He shun'd the doubtful Strife , But Business must be done . 33 Back in the dark by Brompton-Park He turn'd up thro' the Gore , So struck to Camden House so high , All in his Coach and Four . 34 Meanwhile the Guise did fret and fume A Sighed it was to see Benumb'd beneath the Evening Dews Under the Green Wood Tree . 25 Then wet and weary home He far'd Soar muttering all the way , If e're I meet him Neck shall rue The Cudgel of that Day . 36 Mean time on every Pissing Post I'll Past this Recreant's Name , So every Passer-by shall read And Piss against the same . 37 God save the King and grant more Wit Unto his Nobles all , To learn this Lesson from Duke Neck , That Pride will have a Fallen . 