Loves better then Gold : OR , MONEY's and Ass. Come hear my Song , it does you all concern , From it you may your own Misfortunes learn : And yet it's vain , as hereby I shall prove , For want of Money to neglect your Love . To a New Delightful Tune , much in request at Court . WHy should friends and kindred gravely make thee , Wrong thyself , and cruelly forsake me , Be still my dearest Mistress , hang relations , Loves above their dull considerations ; Let them live and want to heap up treasure , While that thee and I enjoy our pleasure . He that seeks a Mistress in a portion . Puts himself to use with damned extortion : If he must be bribed to copulation , Pox upon his love , it's out of fashion : Where we like , no matter where the estate is . It's not love except he shows it gratis . How to see the Miser have I wondered , Weighing out his passion by the hundred , Never consulting birth or education , Virtue without wealth's but profanation : Be she old or ugly it's no matter , So she is is but rich he'l venture at her . Jointure is a sordid lay invention , Quite beside our nature and intention : When we would agree it makes resistance , Finding tricks to keep us at a distance : Then who poorly makes a new election , Suffers wealth to Cuckold his affection . SOuls are free and should not be confined to , Objects which the fancy has no mind to , When a pretty female I importune ? Shall I loose her for her want of fortune ? It's a folly , sordid , and inhumane , Thus to fell the pleasures of a woman . More to me the pleasing of my mind is , Than the farfetched wealth of both the Indies , I've a soul above those drossy treasures , Love does yield more sweet and lasting pleasures , Such a joy as nothing can destroy it , None desribe it but they that do enjoy it . Yet the low-souled wretch may have his fancy , I can valve nothing but my Nancy : She that has and eye so black and sprightful , And a place I name not more delightful ? Such a mine as greater wealth affords , That the wretched worldling ever hoardeth . Rows of brightest and of shining pearls are , Not so oriental as my girls are , Rubies touch her lips , and gain more lustre , Looking redder when that they have bust her , Her read cheeks so fair she need not patch it , There's none but the other cheek can match i Then for humour , wit and conversation , Nothing can be like her in the Nation , Always lively , airy , brisk and jolly , Free from studied pride , and Melancholy ? Such she is , and her I love more dearly , than the dame that has her thousands yearly . There you cringe and make your best addresses , But alas she likes not your caresses ; Speak and Bow as well as ever you can Sir , Ten to one if ever you get and answer : When you're gone she cries a saucy fellow , Come to me without his white and yellow , He that can and will this hag may marry , But for me the jade is like to tarry ; Let her live till lust and age do grieve her , Till she call her Money to relieve her ; May she covet Husbands without measure , Always wish , but know not of her pleasure . Still my girl and I will love each other , Want of wealth shall never my passion smother Were she rich I could not love her better , Were she poor I would never defeat her : Whatsoever I have I must confess it , She deserves , and therefore shall possess it . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . Loves better then Gold : OR , MONEY's and Ass. Come hear my Song , it does you all concern , From it you may your own Misfortunes learn : And yet it's vain , as hereby I shall prove , For want of Money to neglect your Love . To a New Delightful Tune , much in request at Court . WHy should friends and kindred gravely make thee , Wrong thyself , and cruelly forsake me , Be still my dearest Mistress , hang relations , Loves above their dull considerations ; Let them live and want to heap up treasure , While that thee and I enjoy our pleasure . He that seeks a Mistress in a portion . Puts himself to use with damned extortion : If he must be bribed to copulation , Pox upon his love , it's out of fashion : Where we like , no matter where the estate is . It's not love except he shows it gratis . How to see the Miser have I wondered , Weighing out his passion by the hundred , Never consulting birth or education , Virtue without wealth's but profanation : Be she old or ugly it's no matter , So she is is but rich he'l venture at her . Jointure is a sordid lay invention , Quite beside our nature and intention : When we would agree it makes resistance , Finding tricks to keep us at a distance : Then who poorly makes a new election , Suffers wealth to Cuckold his affection . SOuls are free and should not be confined to , Objects which the fancy has no mind to , When a pretty female I importune ? Shall I loose her for her want of fortune ? It's a folly , sordid , and inhumane , Thus to fell the pleasures of a woman . More to me the pleasing of my mind is , Than the farfetched wealth of both the Indies , I've a soul above those drossy treasures , Love does yield more sweet and lasting pleasures , Such a joy as nothing can destroy it , None desribe it but they that do enjoy it . Yet the low-souled wretch may have his fancy , I can valve nothing but my Nancy : She that has and eye so black and sprightful , And a place I name not more delightful ? Such a mine as greater wealth affords , That the wretched worldling ever hoardeth . Rows of brightest and of shining pearls are , Not so oriental as my girls are , Rubies touch her lips , and gain more lustre , Looking redder when that they have bust her , Her read cheeks so fair she need not patch it , There's none but the other cheek can match i Then for humour , wit and conversation , Nothing can be like her in the Nation , Always lively , airy , brisk and jolly , Free from studied pride , and Melancholy ? Such she is , and her I love more dearly , than the dame that has her thousands yearly . There you cringe and make your best addresses , But alas she likes not your caresses ; Speak and Bow as well as ever you can Sir , Ten to one if ever you get and answer : When you're gone she cries a saucy fellow , Come to me without his white and yellow , He that can and will this hag may marry , But for me the jade is like to tarry ; Let her live till lust and age do grieve her , Till she call her Money to relieve her ; May she covet Husbands without measure , Always wish , but know not of her pleasure . Still my girl and I will love each other , Want of wealth shall never my passion smother Were she rich I could not love her better , Were she poor I would never defeat her : Whatsoever I have I must confess it , She deserves , and therefore shall possess it . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 