C : RB . I.262 ( 001 ) And Epytaphe upon the Death of M. Rycharde Goodricke Esquire . IF ever Realm had cause to rue The death and loss of anyone Then hath this realm just cause and true This worthy dead man , to bemoan By whom such treasure their is lost As scant the like , in Englandes cost . A head where learned Pallas sat And settled wisdom dwelt likewise And grounded skill , for common state That with forecast , could well devise Where learning syttes , with skill & wit Such one to rule , who thinks not fit . A tongue that prudently could say What might be said , and that with speed A wit that knew , no stop nor stay To gyve advise , in time of need A fytter match , there could not be Then tongue and will , thus to agree . A heart most earnest to maintain Goddes truth and his unspotted law No hope of mede , no fear of pain From care of that , could him withdraw Oh blessed realm , whose rulers be So zealous in that thing as he A man most ready to defend A right , and here a poor men cause No threatening foe , no fawning friend Could make him do , against the law As Laws defend , a truth and right So Lawyers should , with all their might Thus then the poor , his help does mys And Pallas lacks , her learned knight The Law does lack , a light of his The Realm hath lost , a worthy wight And that which is the greatest grief Gods word hath lost , a member chief . And yet not lost , whom Christ hath found And placed in heaven , I doubt it not Thus he that lackte his legs on ground Before us all , to heaven is god . To heaven we see , the nearest way Is virtue then , there is no nay . Finis . R. . MC : RB . I.262 ( 001 ) And Epytaphe upon the Death of M. Rycharde Goodricke Esquire . IF ever Realm had cause to rue The death and loss of anyone Then hath this realm just cause and true This worthy dead man , to bemoan By whom such treasure their is lost As scant the like , in Englandes cost . A head where learned Pallas sat And settled wisdom dwelt likewise And grounded skill , for common state That with forecast , could well devise Where learning syttes , with skill & wit Such one to rule , who thinks not fit . A tongue that prudently could say What might be said , and that with speed A wit that knew , no stop nor stay To gyve advise , in time of need A fytter match , there could not be Then tongue and will , thus to agree . A heart most earnest to maintain Goddes truth and his unspotted law No hope of mede , no fear of pain From care of that , could him withdraw Oh blessed realm , whose rulers be So zealous in that thing as he A man most ready to defend A right , and here a poor men cause No threatening foe , no fawning friend Could make him do , against the law As Laws defend , a truth and right So Lawyers should , with all their might Thus then the poor , his help does mys And Pallas lacks , her learned knight The Law does lack , a light of his The Realm hath lost , a worthy wight And that which is the greatest grief Gods word hath lost , a member chief . And yet not lost , whom Christ hath found And placed in heaven , I doubt it not Thus he that lackte his legs on ground Before us all , to heaven is god . To heaven we see , the nearest way Is virtue then , there is no nay . Finis . R. . M 