A Looking-Glass for a Bad Husband : Or , A Caveat for a Spendthrift . You that are guilty of that sinful Crime Of Drunkenness , strive for to leave it off in time : Lay up your Money , do not it vainly spend ; For in your greatest need , it will be your best Friend . Endeavour in your Youth , lest in old Age you want ; For when that Poverty does come , Friends will be scant . To the Tune of , The Poor Man's Comfort Or , Digby . By T. L. YOu that are bad Husbands I pray you draw near , Good Counsel here's for you , if you will give ear : Then observe it rightly , and bear it in mind , A great deal of Benefit in it you'l find . Here you may lea [ rn ] how to live gallant and brave , If you will endeavour for to get and save . Then take care how in idle your money you spend , For in time of need it will be your best Friend . You see that the times are very hard grown , Trading it is dead both in Country and Town : If a Man he han't where withal him to maintain , To make his complaint it is all but in vain . For money is scarce , and Charity's cold : Then save something in youth against you are old . Then take care , etc Now you that intend good Husbands to be , Observe well this Rule in every degree : If you do get money don't spend it in waste , For when it is gone , you will want it at last . To be careful and saving , you must always strive , Oh that is the right ready way for to thrive . Then take care how in waste thou dost thy money spend , For in time of need it will be thy best Friend . FIrst at the employment and work be not slack , To get Food for the Belly , and clothes for the Back . When then thou hast god money , don't spend it in vain : But keep it and save it , thy charge to maintain . Take care and refrain from all bad company : For that is the high way unto Poverty . Then take care how in waste thou dost thy money spend , For in time of need it will be thy best Friend . Refrain from the Alehouse , and don't it frequen To be thrifty and careful let thy mind be bent . But if thou chance with a friend for to meet , With a Flagon or two thou then mayest him gree And when thou hast done , then to work again fallen : Some thing hath some savour , though it be but small . Then take , etc If that thou art blessed with a good careful Wife , Be loving unto her all days of thy Life , If she gives thee good counsel , do not it refrain , Thoul't find at the last it will be for thy gain . Shun the company of Harlots , for they'l thee betray , And bring both thy Body and Soul to decay . Then take , etc Also unto Gaming do not thy self use , To hazard thy money , in danger to loose . For many by gaming confounds their Estate , And then they repent it , when it is too late . Such idle course besure alwaees defy , Endeavour for to follow good Husbandry . Then take , etc But some there that be that will at and Alehouse fit , And waste away credit , both money and wi Until they have spent all , they will never quiet rest , But makes themselves worse then is any beast . So they can have their fill of strong drink , they don't care Though the belly and back do go empty and bore . Then take , etc I herd of a Prodigal swaggering young Hair , Who spent six hundred pound in less than two year : He capor'd and vapor'd , and took his deligh He ranted in Taverns both day and nigh But when all his Gold it was wasted and gone , Oh then he was slighted by every one . Then take , etc And thus you may see that bad Husbandry Will bring a Man at last unto beggary . For those that are spendthrifts , always threadbare be . With their clothes all torn , a sad sighed for to see : But those that are careful their money to save , They does maintain their Family gallant and brave . Then take , etc To conclude , I advice all good Fellows that are In time , of the main chance for foe have a care , Take heed , and be saving of that which thou hast , It is not good in plenty for to make waste . Remember this Proverb , and bear it in mind . When Poverty comes Friendship is hard to sind . Then take care how in waste thou dost thy money spend , For in time of need it will be thy best Friend . FINIS . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . A Looking-Glass for a Bad Husband : Or , A Caveat for a Spendthrift . You that are guilty of that sinful Crime Of Drunkenness , strive for to leave it off in time : Lay up your Money , do not it vainly spend ; For in your greatest need , it will be your best Friend . Endeavour in your Youth , lest in old Age you want ; For when that Poverty does come , Friends will be scant . To the Tune of , The Poor Man's Comfort Or , Digby . By T. L. YOu that are bad Husbands I pray you draw near , Good Counsel here's for you , if you will give ear : Then observe it rightly , and bear it in mind , A great deal of Benefit in it you'l find . Here you may lea [ rn ] how to live gallant and brave , If you will endeavour for to get and save . Then take care how in idle your money you spend , For in time of need it will be your best Friend . You see that the times are very hard grown , Trading it is dead both in Country and Town : If a Man he han't where withal him to maintain , To make his complaint it is all but in vain . For money is scarce , and Charity's cold : Then save something in youth against you are old . Then take care , etc Now you that intend good Husbands to be , Observe well this Rule in every degree : If you do get money don't spend it in waste , For when it is gone , you will want it at last . To be careful and saving , you must always strive , Oh that is the right ready way for to thrive . Then take care how in waste thou dost thy money spend , For in time of need it will be thy best Friend . FIrst at the employment and work be not slack , To get Food for the Belly , and clothes for the Back . When then thou hast god money , don't spend it in vain : But keep it and save it , thy charge to maintain . Take care and refrain from all bad company : For that is the high way unto Poverty . Then take care how in waste thou dost thy money spend , For in time of need it will be thy best Friend . Refrain from the Alehouse , and don't it frequen To be thrifty and careful let thy mind be bent . But if thou chance with a friend for to meet , With a Flagon or two thou then mayest him gree And when thou hast done , then to work again fallen : Some thing hath some savour , though it be but small . Then take , etc If that thou art blessed with a good careful Wife , Be loving unto her all days of thy Life , If she gives thee good counsel , do not it refrain , Thoul't find at the last it will be for thy gain . Shun the company of Harlots , for they'l thee betray , And bring both thy Body and Soul to decay . Then take , etc Also unto Gaming do not thy self use , To hazard thy money , in danger to loose . For many by gaming confounds their Estate , And then they repent it , when it is too late . Such idle course besure alwaees defy , Endeavour for to follow good Husbandry . Then take , etc But some there that be that will at and Alehouse fit , And waste away credit , both money and wi Until they have spent all , they will never quiet rest , But makes themselves worse then is any beast . So they can have their fill of strong drink , they don't care Though the belly and back do go empty and bore . Then take , etc I herd of a Prodigal swaggering young Hair , Who spent six hundred pound in less than two year : He capor'd and vapor'd , and took his deligh He ranted in Taverns both day and nigh But when all his Gold it was wasted and gone , Oh then he was slighted by every one . Then take , etc And thus you may see that bad Husbandry Will bring a Man at last unto beggary . For those that are spendthrifts , always threadbare be . With their clothes all torn , a sad sighed for to see : But those that are careful their money to save , They does maintain their Family gallant and brave . Then take , etc To conclude , I advice all good Fellows that are In time , of the main chance for foe have a care , Take heed , and be saving of that which thou hast , It is not good in plenty for to make waste . Remember this Proverb , and bear it in mind . When Poverty comes Friendship is hard to sind . Then take care how in waste thou dost thy money spend , For in time of need it will be thy best Friend . FINIS . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 