And Excellent new Ballad , ENTITLED King WILLIAM And his Forester , To its own proper Tune . YOU Subject's of Britain come listen a while , Here is a new Ditty will make you to smile . It is of the King and the Keeper also , Who met in the Forest but lately ago . O early , Oh early , into a Morning , King William rose early into a Morning , And a Gown of Grey Russet King William put on , As tho' he had been some silly poor Man. The Hounds were made ready prepar'd for the Game , The Nobles attended of Honour and Fame , But like a mean Subject in humble Array , He to his own Forest was taking his Way . O then bespoke Marry our most Royal Queen , My Gracious King William , where are you going ? He answer'd her quickly , I count him no Man That telleth his Council unto a Woman , The Queen with a modest Behaviour reply'd , I wish that kind Providence may be thy Guide , To keep thee from Danger my sovereign Lord , The which will the greatest of Comfort afford . He went to the Forest some pleasure to spy , The grey Hound ran swift and the Keeper drew nigh , Who cry'd you bold Fellow how dare you come here , Without the King's Leave to chase his fair Dear . Here are my three Hounds , I'll give them to you , And likewise my Hauks they're as good as e're flew , Beside I will give thee full Forty Shillings , If you will not betray me to William our King . Your three Hounds I'll tell you I never will take , Nor yet your three Hauks your Peace for to make , Nor will I be bribed with Money and Ring , But I will disclose you to William our King . As I'm a true Keeper I'll not be unjust , Nor for a Gold Ring will I forfeit my Trust , I'll bring you before him as sure as a Gun , And there you shall answer for what you have done . Thou art a bold Fellow King William reply'd , How dost thou not see the Star at my Side . The Forest is mine I'll let thee to know , Then what is the Reason you threaten me so . With that the bold Keeper fell down on his knees , A trembling Fear his Spirit did seize . The Picture of Death did appear in his Face , He knew not at first the King was in Place . O pardon , Oh pardon , my Sovereign Liege , For your Royal Pardon I humbly beseech , Alas ! my poor Heart in my Breast it is cold , Oh let me not suffer for being so bold . Get up honest Keeper and shake off thy Fears , In thee there is nothing of Folly appears : Oh that every one were as faithful as you , Oh what a blessed Prince King William would be . Because I encourage such Persons as you , I'll make you my Ranger ; if that you won't do , I'll make the a Captain by Sea or by Land , And high in my Favour thou ever shall stand . The Keeper reply'd , My Sovereign Lord , Sure I am not worthy of such a Reward ; Yet nevertheless your true Keeper I'll be , Because I'm afraid to venture by Sea , With that the King laughed , till his Sides he did hold , And threw him down Fifty brave Guineas of Gold , And bade him haste to the Kinsingtoun Court , Where of this true Jest he would make some sport , And when you come hither see you ask for long Jack , Who wears a Pagenet of Gold at his Back Likewise a great Fazon of Gold at his right Sleeve , For he's a true Man you may him believe : He's one of the Porters that stands at my Gate , To let in my Nobles both early and late ; And therefore good Fellow come up without Fear I'll make thee my Ranger of Parks far and near . FINIS . And Excellent new Ballad , ENTITLED King WILLIAM And his Forester , To its own proper Tune . YOU Subject's of Britain come listen a while , Here is a new Ditty will make you to smile . It is of the King and the Keeper also , Who met in the Forest but lately ago . O early , Oh early , into a Morning , King William rose early into a Morning , And a Gown of Grey Russet King William put on , As tho' he had been some silly poor Man. The Hounds were made ready prepar'd for the Game , The Nobles attended of Honour and Fame , But like a mean Subject in humble Array , He to his own Forest was taking his Way . O then bespoke Marry our most Royal Queen , My Gracious King William , where are you going ? He answer'd her quickly , I count him no Man That telleth his Council unto a Woman , The Queen with a modest Behaviour reply'd , I wish that kind Providence may be thy Guide , To keep thee from Danger my sovereign Lord , The which will the greatest of Comfort afford . He went to the Forest some pleasure to spy , The grey Hound ran swift and the Keeper drew nigh , Who cry'd you bold Fellow how dare you come here , Without the King's Leave to chase his fair Dear . Here are my three Hounds , I'll give them to you , And likewise my Hauks they're as good as e're flew , Beside I will give thee full Forty Shillings , If you will not betray me to William our King . Your three Hounds I'll tell you I never will take , Nor yet your three Hauks your Peace for to make , Nor will I be bribed with Money and Ring , But I will disclose you to William our King . As I'm a true Keeper I'll not be unjust , Nor for a Gold Ring will I forfeit my Trust , I'll bring you before him as sure as a Gun , And there you shall answer for what you have done . Thou art a bold Fellow King William reply'd , How dost thou not see the Star at my Side . The Forest is mine I'll let thee to know , Then what is the Reason you threaten me so . With that the bold Keeper fell down on his knees , A trembling Fear his Spirit did seize . The Picture of Death did appear in his Face , He knew not at first the King was in Place . O pardon , Oh pardon , my Sovereign Liege , For your Royal Pardon I humbly beseech , Alas ! my poor Heart in my Breast it is cold , Oh let me not suffer for being so bold . Get up honest Keeper and shake off thy Fears , In thee there is nothing of Folly appears : Oh that every one were as faithful as you , Oh what a blessed Prince King William would be . Because I encourage such Persons as you , I'll make you my Ranger ; if that you won't do , I'll make the a Captain by Sea or by Land , And high in my Favour thou ever shall stand . The Keeper reply'd , My Sovereign Lord , Sure I am not worthy of such a Reward ; Yet nevertheless your true Keeper I'll be , Because I'm afraid to venture by Sea , With that the King laughed , till his Sides he did hold , And threw him down Fifty brave Guineas of Gold , And bade him haste to the Kinsingtoun Court , Where of this true Jest he would make some sport , And when you come hither see you ask for long Jack , Who wears a Pagenet of Gold at his Back Likewise a great Fazon of Gold at his right Sleeve , For he's a true Man you may him believe : He's one of the Porters that stands at my Gate , To let in my Nobles both early and late ; And therefore good Fellow come up without Fear I'll make thee my Ranger of Parks far and near . FINIS . 