The Taunton Maids delight , OR , Heigh for the honest Woosted-Comber . In Taunton Town a Maid does dwell , Who loves a Woosted-Comber very well , In the praise of him she does declare , No other Tradesman can with him compare . All Sweethearts that does come she does refuse , Only a Woosted-Comber she does choose , To him she wishes good prosperity , For 'tis a Comber must her Husband be . The Tune is , I have a good old Mother at home , etc T. L. YOu pretty Maids where e're you are , come listen unto me , And briefly to you I'l declare in every degree , My choice in choosing of a mate to you I will unfold , A Woosted-Comber is the man that I love better than Gold : Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave , I love him as my life , ever I a Husband have , I will be a Comber wife . Many youngmen to me does resort , that of several callings be , With Sugared words they does me court , to gain true love of me : But I don't regard what they do say , of them I make but a jest , No man shall steal my heart away from him whom I love best . Then heigh for etc Now a true description you shall have . concerning of my sweet hearts , And how I fitted them most brave according to their deserts , Although they strived with might and main yet I lay at per due , There's never a one shall me constrain to change and old Love for a new . Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave I love him as my life If ever I a Husband have I will be a Comber's wife . The first that to me did make suit , it was a Barbor brave , He gave unto me a kind salute , and said 'twas my love he did crave : But I made to him this reply , I will not be married yet , Your Rayzer and Washing-bells truly for my Basin is not fit . Then heigh for etc THen came a Miller unto me , that was both strong and stout , He swore that I his wife must be , but I gave him the rou Quoth I , be gone Mr. Loggerhead , and take this answer in brief , When 'tis my fortune for to wed , it shall not be with a Thief . Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave I love him as my life , If ever I a Husband have I will be a Comber's wife . Then came a Smith that was coalblack , and asked me if I would wed , He said that a good wife he did lack , at night to warm his bed : But I answered him presently with words plain and downright , A Blacksmith's hammer never shall upon my Anvil smite . Then heigh etc A pricklouse Taylor he came in , with his Bodkin , Sheares , and Thimble , To compliment he did begin , with speeches quick and nimble ; He said if I would be his mate bravely maintain'd I should be , But I told him that Cabbage I did hate , with my body 'twould not agree . Then heigh etc Then came a cold Shoemaker that was both neat and trim , He ask't if I could find in my heart to love and fancy him ; Quoth I , march off with Sir Hugh's bones , your suit it is in vain , For it is not a Shoemaker that shall my love obtain . Then heigh etc And honest Weaver came at last , and said he'd constant prove , He said he would maintain me brave , if I would be his love : He was a handsome proper Lad , exceeding all the rest , Of all the six Suitors I had the Weaver was the best , Except the Woosted-Comber brave , etc Of all sorts of Tradesmen that are dwelling in Taunton town , None with a Comber can compare , for valour and renown : He is both courageous and stout , in Battle to fight he is free , To his enemy he'l face about , he scorns a Coward to be , Then heigh etc When he with his Comrades does meet , his money he'l freely spend , With good strong Beer his heart he'l cheer , to the Alewife he's a good friend : And when he hath spent and hour or twain in merry company , At the Come-pot again with might & main , his work he then does ply . Then heigh etc , Sometime in the fields with his truelove a progress he does take , With kisses sweet he does her greet , and much of her does make : On the green grass the time they pass in sweet felicity , With heart and mind their loves they bind , ne'r parted for to be . Then heigh etc And thus the Woosted-Comber's praise I have declared to you , In every part is his desert , I have described true , He is the man that I esteem , above Rubies or Pearl , I'de rather choose to lie by him then by a Lord or Earl . Then heigh etc God bless the Combers and Weavers both that in Taunton does dwell , Unto them all both great and small I heartily wish well ; To those in Milverton so brave I also do commend , Good Trading I wish they still may have , and so I make and end . Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave I love him as my life , If ever I a Husband have I will be a Comber's wife . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in West - Smithfield . The Taunton Maids delight , OR , Heigh for the honest Woosted-Comber . In Taunton Town a Maid does dwell , Who loves a Woosted-Comber very well , In the praise of him she does declare , No other Tradesman can with him compare . All Sweethearts that does come she does refuse , Only a Woosted-Comber she does choose , To him she wishes good prosperity , For 'tis a Comber must her Husband be . The Tune is , I have a good old Mother at home , etc T. L. YOu pretty Maids where e're you are , come listen unto me , And briefly to you I'l declare in every degree , My choice in choosing of a mate to you I will unfold , A Woosted-Comber is the man that I love better than Gold : Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave , I love him as my life , ever I a Husband have , I will be a Comber wife . Many youngmen to me does resort , that of several callings be , With Sugared words they does me court , to gain true love of me : But I don't regard what they do say , of them I make but a jest , No man shall steal my heart away from him whom I love best . Then heigh for etc Now a true description you shall have . concerning of my sweet hearts , And how I fitted them most brave according to their deserts , Although they strived with might and main yet I lay at per due , There's never a one shall me constrain to change and old Love for a new . Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave I love him as my life If ever I a Husband have I will be a Comber's wife . The first that to me did make suit , it was a Barbor brave , He gave unto me a kind salute , and said 'twas my love he did crave : But I made to him this reply , I will not be married yet , Your Rayzer and Washing-bells truly for my Basin is not fit . Then heigh for etc THen came a Miller unto me , that was both strong and stout , He swore that I his wife must be , but I gave him the rou Quoth I , be gone Mr. Loggerhead , and take this answer in brief , When 'tis my fortune for to wed , it shall not be with a Thief . Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave I love him as my life , If ever I a Husband have I will be a Comber's wife . Then came a Smith that was coalblack , and asked me if I would wed , He said that a good wife he did lack , at night to warm his bed : But I answered him presently with words plain and downright , A Blacksmith's hammer never shall upon my Anvil smite . Then heigh etc A pricklouse Taylor he came in , with his Bodkin , Sheares , and Thimble , To compliment he did begin , with speeches quick and nimble ; He said if I would be his mate bravely maintain'd I should be , But I told him that Cabbage I did hate , with my body 'twould not agree . Then heigh etc Then came a cold Shoemaker that was both neat and trim , He ask't if I could find in my heart to love and fancy him ; Quoth I , march off with Sir Hugh's bones , your suit it is in vain , For it is not a Shoemaker that shall my love obtain . Then heigh etc And honest Weaver came at last , and said he'd constant prove , He said he would maintain me brave , if I would be his love : He was a handsome proper Lad , exceeding all the rest , Of all the six Suitors I had the Weaver was the best , Except the Woosted-Comber brave , etc Of all sorts of Tradesmen that are dwelling in Taunton town , None with a Comber can compare , for valour and renown : He is both courageous and stout , in Battle to fight he is free , To his enemy he'l face about , he scorns a Coward to be , Then heigh etc When he with his Comrades does meet , his money he'l freely spend , With good strong Beer his heart he'l cheer , to the Alewife he's a good friend : And when he hath spent and hour or twain in merry company , At the Come-pot again with might & main , his work he then does ply . Then heigh etc , Sometime in the fields with his truelove a progress he does take , With kisses sweet he does her greet , and much of her does make : On the green grass the time they pass in sweet felicity , With heart and mind their loves they bind , ne'r parted for to be . Then heigh etc And thus the Woosted-Comber's praise I have declared to you , In every part is his desert , I have described true , He is the man that I esteem , above Rubies or Pearl , I'de rather choose to lie by him then by a Lord or Earl . Then heigh etc God bless the Combers and Weavers both that in Taunton does dwell , Unto them all both great and small I heartily wish well ; To those in Milverton so brave I also do commend , Good Trading I wish they still may have , and so I make and end . Then heigh for the Woosted-Comber brave I love him as my life , If ever I a Husband have I will be a Comber's wife . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in West - Smithfield . 