THE Wanton Virgins Frighted , With the Spies Downfall From the Tree top , to the Pond bottom . OR , The old Man Bagbeard by the black Bandilears and Buffcoats . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R. P. YOu that delight in a Jocular Song , come listen unto me a while Sir , I will engage you shall not tarry long , before it will make you to smile Sir , Near to the Town there liv'd and old Man , Had three pretty Maids to his Daughters , Of whom I will tell such a story Anon , will tickle your fancy with laughter . The old Man he had in his Garden a Pond , 'twas in very fine Summer weather , The Daughters one night , they were all very found to go , and both in it together . Which they Agreed , but hapn'd to be , o'reheard by a Youth in the house Sir , Who god into the Garden , and climb up a Tree , and there sat as still as a Mouse Sir . The branch where he sat , it hung over the Pond , at each puff of wind he did totter , Pleas'd with the thoughts he should fit so abscond and see them go into the water , When the old Man was safe in his Bed , the Daughters then to the Pond went Sir , One to the other two laughing she said , as high as our Bubbles we'll venture . Upon the tender Green Grass they sat down , they all were of delicate feature , Each pluck'd of her petty-coat smock , & Gown , no sighed it could ever be sweeter , Into the Pond then dabbling they went , So clean that they needed no washing , But they were all so unluckily bent , l [ i ] ke Boys they began to be dashing . If any body should see us says one , they'd think we were boding of evils , And from the sighed of us quickly would run , to avoid so many white Devils , This put the youth on such a merry Pin , he let go his hold thro' his laughter , And as it fell out , he fell tumbling in , and scar'd them all out of the water . The old Man by this time a Noise had herd and Rose out of bed in a fright Sir , And comes to the door with a Rusty old Sword , there stood in a posture to fight Sir , The Daughters they all came tumbling in , and over their Dad they did blunder , Who Cry'd aloud , Mercy , Oh Good Gentlemen ; and thought they were thieves came to plunder . The noise by this time the Neighbourhood herd , who came with long Clubs to assist-him , He told them that three bloody Rouges run upstairs , he dar'd by no means to resist-them , For they were Clothed all in their Buff , he see as they shou'd in their shoulders , And black B [ a ] ndilers hung before like a Ruff , which made them believe they were Soldiers . The Virgins their Clothes in the Garden had left , and keys of their trunks in their pocket , To put on the sheets they were feign to make shift , their Chest they could not unlock it , At last venter'd up these valiant men , thus Armed with Courage undaunted ; But took them for Spirits , and Run back again , and swore that the house it was haunted . As they Retreated the young man they met , come shivering in at the door Sir , Who look'd like a Rat with his Clothes drooping wet , no Rouge that was pump'd could look worse All were amaz'd to see him come in , and ask'd of him what was the matter , He told them the story , and where he had been , which made them burst into a laughter . Printed for R. Kell at the Blew-Anchor near Pye-Corner . THE Wanton Virgins Frighted , With the Spies Downfall From the Tree top , to the Pond bottom . OR , The old Man Bagbeard by the black Bandilears and Buffcoats . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R. P. YOu that delight in a Jocular Song , come listen unto me a while Sir , I will engage you shall not tarry long , before it will make you to smile Sir , Near to the Town there liv'd and old Man , Had three pretty Maids to his Daughters , Of whom I will tell such a story Anon , will tickle your fancy with laughter . The old Man he had in his Garden a Pond , 'twas in very fine Summer weather , The Daughters one night , they were all very found to go , and both in it together . Which they Agreed , but hapn'd to be , o'reheard by a Youth in the house Sir , Who god into the Garden , and climb up a Tree , and there sat as still as a Mouse Sir . The branch where he sat , it hung over the Pond , at each puff of wind he did totter , Pleas'd with the thoughts he should fit so abscond and see them go into the water , When the old Man was safe in his Bed , the Daughters then to the Pond went Sir , One to the other two laughing she said , as high as our Bubbles we'll venture . Upon the tender Green Grass they sat down , they all were of delicate feature , Each pluck'd of her petty-coat smock , & Gown , no sighed it could ever be sweeter , Into the Pond then dabbling they went , So clean that they needed no washing , But they were all so unluckily bent , l [ i ] ke Boys they began to be dashing . If any body should see us says one , they'd think we were boding of evils , And from the sighed of us quickly would run , to avoid so many white Devils , This put the youth on such a merry Pin , he let go his hold thro' his laughter , And as it fell out , he fell tumbling in , and scar'd them all out of the water . The old Man by this time a Noise had herd and Rose out of bed in a fright Sir , And comes to the door with a Rusty old Sword , there stood in a posture to fight Sir , The Daughters they all came tumbling in , and over their Dad they did blunder , Who Cry'd aloud , Mercy , Oh Good Gentlemen ; and thought they were thieves came to plunder . The noise by this time the Neighbourhood herd , who came with long Clubs to assist-him , He told them that three bloody Rouges run upstairs , he dar'd by no means to resist-them , For they were Clothed all in their Buff , he see as they shou'd in their shoulders , And black B [ a ] ndilers hung before like a Ruff , which made them believe they were Soldiers . The Virgins their Clothes in the Garden had left , and keys of their trunks in their pocket , To put on the sheets they were feign to make shift , their Chest they could not unlock it , At last venter'd up these valiant men , thus Armed with Courage undaunted ; But took them for Spirits , and Run back again , and swore that the house it was haunted . As they Retreated the young man they met , come shivering in at the door Sir , Who look'd like a Rat with his Clothes drooping wet , no Rouge that was pump'd could look worse All were amaz'd to see him come in , and ask'd of him what was the matter , He told them the story , and where he had been , which made them burst into a laughter . Printed for R. Kell at the Blew-Anchor near Pye-Corner . 