C : RB . I.262 ( 003 ) YOur Chancery-Lawyer , who by conscience thrives , In spining a suit to the length of three lives , A suit which the Client does wear out in slavery , while pleader makes conscience a cloak for his knavery : Can boast of his cunning but i'th present-Tence , For Non est inventus a hundred years hence . Then why should we turmoil in cares and fears ? And turn our tranquillity to sighs and tears , Let's eat , drink , and play , e'r the worms do corrupt us For I say , that Post mortem nulla voluptas , Let's deal with our Damsels , that we may from thence Have brood's to succeed us a hundred years hence . I never could gain satisfaction upon Your dreams of a bliss when we'r cold as a stone , The Sages , call us Drunkards , Gluttons & wenchers . But we find such Morsels , Upon their own trenchers : For Abigal , Hannah , and sister Prudence , Will simper to nothing a hundred years hence . The Plush-cooted Quack that his fees to enlarge , Kills people with Licence , and at their own charge , Who builds a vast structure of ill got wealth , from the degrees of a [ Pisspot , ] and ruins of health , Though treasures of life he pretends to dispense , Shall be turn'd into mummy a hundred years hence . The Butterfly Courtier that Pageant of state , The Mousetrap of honour , and May-game of fate , Withal his ambitions , intrigues , and his tricks [ , ] must die like a Clown , and then drops into Stir , His plots against death , are too slender a fence , For he'l be out of place a hundred years hence . Yea , the Poet himself that so loftily sings , As he scorns any subject's , but Hero's or Kings , Must to the Capricio's of fortune submit , and often be counted a fool for his wit , Thus beauty , wit , wealth , law , learning , and sense , All come to nothing a hundred years hence . With Allowance Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . C : RB . I.262 ( 003 ) YOur Chancery-Lawyer , who by conscience thrives , In spining a suit to the length of three lives , A suit which the Client does wear out in slavery , while pleader makes conscience a cloak for his knavery : Can boast of his cunning but i'th present-Tence , For Non est inventus a hundred years hence . Then why should we turmoil in cares and fears ? And turn our tranquillity to sighs and tears , Let's eat , drink , and play , e'r the worms do corrupt us For I say , that Post mortem nulla voluptas , Let's deal with our Damsels , that we may from thence Have brood's to succeed us a hundred years hence . I never could gain satisfaction upon Your dreams of a bliss when we'r cold as a stone , The Sages , call us Drunkards , Gluttons & wenchers . But we find such Morsels , Upon their own trenchers : For Abigal , Hannah , and sister Prudence , Will simper to nothing a hundred years hence . The Plush-cooted Quack that his fees to enlarge , Kills people with Licence , and at their own charge , Who builds a vast structure of ill got wealth , from the degrees of a [ Pisspot , ] and ruins of health , Though treasures of life he pretends to dispense , Shall be turn'd into mummy a hundred years hence . The Butterfly Courtier that Pageant of state , The Mousetrap of honour , and May-game of fate , Withal his ambitions , intrigues , and his tricks [ , ] must die like a Clown , and then drops into Stir , His plots against death , are too slender a fence , For he'l be out of place a hundred years hence . Yea , the Poet himself that so loftily sings , As he scorns any subject's , but Hero's or Kings , Must to the Capricio's of fortune submit , and often be counted a fool for his wit , Thus beauty , wit , wealth , law , learning , and sense , All come to nothing a hundred years hence . With Allowance Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 