A Description of Old England , Or , A true Declaration of the times . Old England of late days it is grown new , As many by experience finds it true ; Throughout the Land , in Country , City , and in Town , The times are harder then e're they were known ; Observe these Verses which below are pend , And let us pray that these bad times may mend . To a pleasant new tune , Or , is not old England grown new . WAs ever the like in any age known , Old England's grown New , and turned upside down , The times they are hard both in Country and town , Then is not old England grown new , grown new , Then is not old England grown new . Old England was once a stately brave place , When traffiqueing everywhere went on a pace , But now trading is dead , and mony's grown scarce , Then is not , etc In days heretofore gold and silver did fly , Then rich men upon their means liv'd gallantly , But the land now is overrun with poverty . then is not , etc Where is all the treasure that in England did flow , That with rich men and poor men did make a brave show The times they now harder and harder does grow , then is not , etc Where are your old soldiers with slashes and scars That never fear'd drinking in old time of wars Nor shedding of blood in mad drunken jars , then is not , etc Where are your old Courtiers that used to ride , With forty blue coats and footmen beside , It is turn'd to six horses a Coach and a guide , Then is not old England grown new , grown new , Then is not old England grown new . The second part , to the same Tune . WHat is become of your old fashioned clothes , Your long-sleev'd doublets , & your trunk hose , It is turn'd to French fashion , and other fine shows , then is not old England grown new , grown new , then is not old England new . For now there's new fashions comes up every day , With costly attire and sumptuous array , It is Pride in the Kingdom does bear all the sway . then is not , etc New triking , new triming , new measures , new paces , For the men they have new heads , and women new faces And several new tricks more to hide their base cases ; then is not , etc There's new fashion'd Caps , and new-fashion'd Locks , And new fashion'd heads for the old pated blocks , With twenty diseases , beside the french-P ---- then is not old , etc In former days men loved one another , They always were faithful and true to each other , But now a man scarcely can trust his own brother , then is not old , etc It was a brave time when men lived in fear , And us'd not themselves so much to curse and swear , But now dam you and sink you is us'd e'ry where , then is not , etc There was not so much deceit us'd heretofore , Cheating and cozening men they did abhor . But now plain-dealing is turn'd out of door . then is not , etc Most rich men were charitable formerly , And shew'd pity to the poor in misery , But their hearts now are hardened with cruelty , then is not , etc Envy and malice now reigneth too much , In the hearts of some persons both poor and rich , To see one another live many does grutch . then is not , etc And thus you may see how the times they do go , Both in town and City , and in Country to , I think there is none of you all but does know , that old England is grown new , grown new , that old England is grown new . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Description of Old England , Or , A true Declaration of the times . Old England of late days it is grown new , As many by experience finds it true ; Throughout the Land , in Country , City , and in Town , The times are harder then e're they were known ; Observe these Verses which below are pend , And let us pray that these bad times may mend . To a pleasant new tune , Or , is not old England grown new . WAs ever the like in any age known , Old England's grown New , and turned upside down , The times they are hard both in Country and town , Then is not old England grown new , grown new , Then is not old England grown new . Old England was once a stately brave place , When traffiqueing everywhere went on a pace , But now trading is dead , and mony's grown scarce , Then is not , etc In days heretofore gold and silver did fly , Then rich men upon their means liv'd gallantly , But the land now is overrun with poverty . then is not , etc Where is all the treasure that in England did flow , That with rich men and poor men did make a brave show The times they now harder and harder does grow , then is not , etc Where are your old soldiers with slashes and scars That never fear'd drinking in old time of wars Nor shedding of blood in mad drunken jars , then is not , etc Where are your old Courtiers that used to ride , With forty blue coats and footmen beside , It is turn'd to six horses a Coach and a guide , Then is not old England grown new , grown new , Then is not old England grown new . The second part , to the same Tune . WHat is become of your old fashioned clothes , Your long-sleev'd doublets , & your trunk hose , It is turn'd to French fashion , and other fine shows , then is not old England grown new , grown new , then is not old England new . For now there's new fashions comes up every day , With costly attire and sumptuous array , It is Pride in the Kingdom does bear all the sway . then is not , etc New triking , new triming , new measures , new paces , For the men they have new heads , and women new faces And several new tricks more to hide their base cases ; then is not , etc There's new fashion'd Caps , and new-fashion'd Locks , And new fashion'd heads for the old pated blocks , With twenty diseases , beside the french-P ---- then is not old , etc In former days men loved one another , They always were faithful and true to each other , But now a man scarcely can trust his own brother , then is not old , etc It was a brave time when men lived in fear , And us'd not themselves so much to curse and swear , But now dam you and sink you is us'd e'ry where , then is not , etc There was not so much deceit us'd heretofore , Cheating and cozening men they did abhor . But now plain-dealing is turn'd out of door . then is not , etc Most rich men were charitable formerly , And shew'd pity to the poor in misery , But their hearts now are hardened with cruelty , then is not , etc Envy and malice now reigneth too much , In the hearts of some persons both poor and rich , To see one another live many does grutch . then is not , etc And thus you may see how the times they do go , Both in town and City , and in Country to , I think there is none of you all but does know , that old England is grown new , grown new , that old England is grown new . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 