The Slighted MAID : OR , The Pining Lover : With sighs and moans she does entreat her Dear , While he seems to be deaf and will not hear : At length his frozen Heart begins to melt , Being moved with the passion she had felt . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn me , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WAs ever Maiden so scorned , by one that she loved so dear ; Long time have I sighed and mourned , and still my Love will not hear : Oh turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and , alas ! what remedy ? My lodging is on the cold ground , and very hard is my fare , But that which troubles me most , is the unkindness of my Dear : Oh turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and , alas ! what remedy ? O stop not thy ear to the wailings of me a poor harmless Maid ; You know we are subject to failings , blind Cupid hath me betrayed : And now I must cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone art the cause of my misery . How canst thou be so herd hearted , and cruel to me alone ; If ever we should be parted , then all my delight is gone ; But ever I cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone art the cause of my misery . I'll make thee pretty sweet posies , and constant I ever will prove , I'll strow thy chamber with roses , and all to delight my Love : Then turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can procure my liberty . I'll do my endeavour to please thee , by making the bed full soft , Of all thy sorrows i'll ease thee , by kissing thy lips full of Then turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can procure my liberty . But thou wilt harden thy heart still , and be deaf to my pitiful moan , So I must endure the smart still , and tumble in straw all alone : While still I cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone art the cause of my misery . If that thou still do disdain me , I never will love thee more , Thy cruelty shall never pain me , for i'll have another in store : But still I cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone are the cause of my misery . By hearing her pitiful clamour , the passion of love he felt ; He could no longer disdain her , his frozen heart it did mell For ever she cried , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can procure my liberty . He said , My Love I will please thee , thy heaviness grieves me soar , But let not sorrow once seize thee , I never will grieve thee more : I'll turn to thee my own kind Heart , dear Love i'll turn to thee ; For I am the Man that now am come to procure thy liberty . I'll crown thee with a garland of straw then , and marry thee with a rush-ring , My frozen heart it will thaw then , and merrily we will sing : But ever she cry'd , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can release my misery . Most lovingly he embrac'd her , and call'd her his Heart's Delight ; And close by his side he plac'd her , all sorrows was vanquished quite : And now she for joy cry'd , Turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Man that alone hast released me of misery . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and sold by C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . The Slighted MAID : OR , The Pining Lover : With sighs and moans she does entreat her Dear , While he seems to be deaf and will not hear : At length his frozen Heart begins to melt , Being moved with the passion she had felt . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn me , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WAs ever Maiden so scorned , by one that she loved so dear ; Long time have I sighed and mourned , and still my Love will not hear : Oh turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and , alas ! what remedy ? My lodging is on the cold ground , and very hard is my fare , But that which troubles me most , is the unkindness of my Dear : Oh turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and , alas ! what remedy ? O stop not thy ear to the wailings of me a poor harmless Maid ; You know we are subject to failings , blind Cupid hath me betrayed : And now I must cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone art the cause of my misery . How canst thou be so herd hearted , and cruel to me alone ; If ever we should be parted , then all my delight is gone ; But ever I cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone art the cause of my misery . I'll make thee pretty sweet posies , and constant I ever will prove , I'll strow thy chamber with roses , and all to delight my Love : Then turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can procure my liberty . I'll do my endeavour to please thee , by making the bed full soft , Of all thy sorrows i'll ease thee , by kissing thy lips full of Then turn to me my own dear Heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can procure my liberty . But thou wilt harden thy heart still , and be deaf to my pitiful moan , So I must endure the smart still , and tumble in straw all alone : While still I cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone art the cause of my misery . If that thou still do disdain me , I never will love thee more , Thy cruelty shall never pain me , for i'll have another in store : But still I cry , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone are the cause of my misery . By hearing her pitiful clamour , the passion of love he felt ; He could no longer disdain her , his frozen heart it did mell For ever she cried , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can procure my liberty . He said , My Love I will please thee , thy heaviness grieves me soar , But let not sorrow once seize thee , I never will grieve thee more : I'll turn to thee my own kind Heart , dear Love i'll turn to thee ; For I am the Man that now am come to procure thy liberty . I'll crown thee with a garland of straw then , and marry thee with a rush-ring , My frozen heart it will thaw then , and merrily we will sing : But ever she cry'd , Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the Man that alone can release my misery . Most lovingly he embrac'd her , and call'd her his Heart's Delight ; And close by his side he plac'd her , all sorrows was vanquished quite : And now she for joy cry'd , Turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Man that alone hast released me of misery . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and sold by C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 