A pleasant Song of the Valiant Deeds of Chivalry Atchiev'd by that Noble Knight , Sir GUY of Warwick , Who for the Love of Fair PHILLIS became a Hermet , and died in a Cave of a Craggy Rock a Mile distant from Warwick . Tune , Was ever Man , etc WAs ever Knight for Lady's sake so tossed in love , as I Sir Guy ? For Phillis fair that Lady bright , as ever man beheld with eye , She gave me leave myself to try , the valiant Knight with shield and spear , E're that her love she would grant me , which made me venture far and near . The proud Sir Guy , a Baron bold , in deeds of arms the doubtful Knight That every day in England was , with sword and spear in field to figh And English-man I was by bith , in faith of Christ a Christian true , The wicked laws of Infidels , I sought by power to subdue . Two hundred twenty years and odd , after our Saviour Christ his birth , When King Athelston wore the crown , I lived here upon the earth , Sometime I was of Warwick Earl , and as I said on very truth , A Lady's love did me constrain to seek strange ventures in my youth . To try my fame by fears of arms , in strange and sundry Heathen lands , Where I achieved for her sake , right dangerous conquests with my hands , For first I sail'd to Normandy , and there I stoutly wone in fight , The Emperour's Daughter of Almany , from many a valiant woe [ r ] thy Knight . Then passed I the seas of Greece to help the Emperor to his right , Against the mighty Soldian's host , of puissant Persians for to sighs Where I did slay of Sarazens , and heathen Pagans many a man , And slew the Soldian's Cousin dear , who had to name , Daughty Colbron . Ezkeldered that famous Knight , to death likewise I did pursue , And Almain Ring of Tyre also , A most terrible too in sighed to view : I went into the Soldian's host , bring thither on Ambassage sent , And brought a way his head with me , I having slave him in his tent . There was a Dragon in the land , which I also myself did slay , As he a lion did pursue , most fiercely met me by the way ; From thence I passed the seas of Greece , and came to Pavy land aright , Where I the Duke of Pavy kill'd , his hanious treason to require . And after came into this land , towards fair Phillis Lady bright , For love of whom I travell'd far , to try my manhood and my migh But when I had espoused her , I stayed with her but forty days , But there I left this Lady fair , and then I went beyond the seas . All clad in grey in Pilgrim sort , my voyage from her I did take , Unto that blessed holy land , for Jesus Christ my Saviour's sake : Where I Earl Jonas did redeem , and all his sons which were fitteen , Who with the cruel Sarazen , in prison for long time had been . I flew the Grant Amarant , in battle fiercely hand to hand . And daughey Barknard killed I , the mighty Duke of that same land : Then I to England came again , and here with Colbron fell I fought , And ugly Giant which the Danes had for their Champion hither brought . I overcame him in the field , and slew him dead right valiantly ; Where I the land did then redeem , from Danish tribute utterly ; And afterwards I offered up the use of weapons solemnly , At Win [ c ] hest [ r ] , whereas I fought in sighed of many far and nigh . In Windsor-forrest I did slay a Boar at passing might and strength , The like in England never was , for hugeness both in breadth and length ; Some of his bones in Warwick yet , within the castle there does lie ; One of his shield-bones to this day hangs in the City of Coventry . On Dunsmoreheath I also slew a monstrous wild and cruel beast , Call'd , The Dun-cow of Dunsmoreheath , which many people had oppressed ; Some of her bones in Warwick yet still for a monument does lie . Which unto every looker's view , as wondrous strange they may espy . And the Dragon in the land , I also did in fight destroy , Which did both men and beasts oppress , and all the country soar annoy : And then to Warwick came again , like Pilgrim poor , and was not known And there I liv'd a Hermet's life , a mile and more out of the town . Where with my hand I hew'd a house out of a craggy rock of stone ; And lived like a Palmer poor within that cave myself alone ; And daily came to beg my food of Phillis at my castle-gate , Not known unto my loving wife , who daily mourned for her mate . Till at the last I fell soar sick , yea , sick so soar that I must die , I sent to her a ring of gold , by which she knew me presently ; Then she repaired to the cave , before that I gave up the ghost , Herself clos'd up my dying eyes , my Phillis fair whom I lov'd most . Thus dreadful Death , did me arrest , to bring my corpse unto to the grave , Aod like a Palmer died I , whereby I thought my soul to save : My body in Warwick yet does lie , though now it is consum'd to mould , My stature was engraven in stone , this present day you may behold . London : Printed for A. M. W. O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane , near West-Smithfield . A pleasant Song of the Valiant Deeds of Chivalry Atchiev'd by that Noble Knight , Sir GUY of Warwick , Who for the Love of Fair PHILLIS became a Hermet , and died in a Cave of a Craggy Rock a Mile distant from Warwick . Tune , Was ever Man , etc WAs ever Knight for Lady's sake so tossed in love , as I Sir Guy ? For Phillis fair that Lady bright , as ever man beheld with eye , She gave me leave myself to try , the valiant Knight with shield and spear , E're that her love she would grant me , which made me venture far and near . The proud Sir Guy , a Baron bold , in deeds of arms the doubtful Knight That every day in England was , with sword and spear in field to figh And English-man I was by bith , in faith of Christ a Christian true , The wicked laws of Infidels , I sought by power to subdue . Two hundred twenty years and odd , after our Saviour Christ his birth , When King Athelston wore the crown , I lived here upon the earth , Sometime I was of Warwick Earl , and as I said on very truth , A Lady's love did me constrain to seek strange ventures in my youth . To try my fame by fears of arms , in strange and sundry Heathen lands , Where I achieved for her sake , right dangerous conquests with my hands , For first I sail'd to Normandy , and there I stoutly wone in fight , The Emperour's Daughter of Almany , from many a valiant woe [ r ] thy Knight . Then passed I the seas of Greece to help the Emperor to his right , Against the mighty Soldian's host , of puissant Persians for to sighs Where I did slay of Sarazens , and heathen Pagans many a man , And slew the Soldian's Cousin dear , who had to name , Daughty Colbron . Ezkeldered that famous Knight , to death likewise I did pursue , And Almain Ring of Tyre also , A most terrible too in sighed to view : I went into the Soldian's host , bring thither on Ambassage sent , And brought a way his head with me , I having slave him in his tent . There was a Dragon in the land , which I also myself did slay , As he a lion did pursue , most fiercely met me by the way ; From thence I passed the seas of Greece , and came to Pavy land aright , Where I the Duke of Pavy kill'd , his hanious treason to require . And after came into this land , towards fair Phillis Lady bright , For love of whom I travell'd far , to try my manhood and my migh But when I had espoused her , I stayed with her but forty days , But there I left this Lady fair , and then I went beyond the seas . All clad in grey in Pilgrim sort , my voyage from her I did take , Unto that blessed holy land , for Jesus Christ my Saviour's sake : Where I Earl Jonas did redeem , and all his sons which were fitteen , Who with the cruel Sarazen , in prison for long time had been . I flew the Grant Amarant , in battle fiercely hand to hand . And daughey Barknard killed I , the mighty Duke of that same land : Then I to England came again , and here with Colbron fell I fought , And ugly Giant which the Danes had for their Champion hither brought . I overcame him in the field , and slew him dead right valiantly ; Where I the land did then redeem , from Danish tribute utterly ; And afterwards I offered up the use of weapons solemnly , At Win [ c ] hest [ r ] , whereas I fought in sighed of many far and nigh . In Windsor-forrest I did slay a Boar at passing might and strength , The like in England never was , for hugeness both in breadth and length ; Some of his bones in Warwick yet , within the castle there does lie ; One of his shield-bones to this day hangs in the City of Coventry . On Dunsmoreheath I also slew a monstrous wild and cruel beast , Call'd , The Dun-cow of Dunsmoreheath , which many people had oppressed ; Some of her bones in Warwick yet still for a monument does lie . Which unto every looker's view , as wondrous strange they may espy . And the Dragon in the land , I also did in fight destroy , Which did both men and beasts oppress , and all the country soar annoy : And then to Warwick came again , like Pilgrim poor , and was not known And there I liv'd a Hermet's life , a mile and more out of the town . Where with my hand I hew'd a house out of a craggy rock of stone ; And lived like a Palmer poor within that cave myself alone ; And daily came to beg my food of Phillis at my castle-gate , Not known unto my loving wife , who daily mourned for her mate . Till at the last I fell soar sick , yea , sick so soar that I must die , I sent to her a ring of gold , by which she knew me presently ; Then she repaired to the cave , before that I gave up the ghost , Herself clos'd up my dying eyes , my Phillis fair whom I lov'd most . Thus dreadful Death , did me arrest , to bring my corpse unto to the grave , Aod like a Palmer died I , whereby I thought my soul to save : My body in Warwick yet does lie , though now it is consum'd to mould , My stature was engraven in stone , this present day you may behold . London : Printed for A. M. W. O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane , near West-Smithfield . 