V The Powder of Sympathy , Prepared at Florence , by Dominico Gratiano , Grician . THIS most excellent Powder stauncheth all manner of Bleeding , present , and at a distance , by applying the least Grain of it upon the Blood , taken in a clean Handkerchief or Rag , it stops it immediately , though it bleeds never so fast , let the Accident be what it will , a Vein cut , or a cut with a Sword , Knife , Axe , thrust with a Rapier , Bleeding at the Nose , Bloody-Flux , or bleeding in - wardly , and Women after Child bearing , or any other excess of Bleeding whatsoever : Take five or six drops of the Blood in a piece of clean Cloth , pat a little of the Powder on it , then put up the Cloth in a warm decent place , it stops it to Admiration ; and if the Blood is brought a far off , and it is dried up coming so far , warm a little Water , and moisten the Blood on the Cloth , then apply the Powder , it stops it , if it comes 40 , or 50 , or 100 Miles off ; and not only stops Bleeding , but also , if it be a Wound , or Cut , it takes away the Pain , and cures the Wound without Play - ster . Them that are troubled with the Toothache , bleed your Gums two or three drops in a clean Rag , and apply the Powder , it takes away the Pain immediately . He has also another most Admirable Powder for Women in La - bour , that causeth a speedy and safe Delivery . The Powder of Sympathy is Sealed up in Boxes , and Papers , with the Eagle and Child . 2 s . 6 worser . the Box , and 1 s the Paper . He has also all sorts of Medicines for all Curable Diseases , if you please to come to his Chamber . He Lodges at the Sign of thee in street , The Powder of Sympathy , Prepared at Florence , by Dominico Gratiano , Grecian . THIS most excellent Powder stauncheth all manner of Bleeding , present , and at a distance , by applying the least Grain of it upon the Blood , taken in a clean Handkerchief or Rag , it stops it immediately , though it bleeds never so fast , let the Accident be what it will , a Vein cut , or a cut with a Sword , Knife , Axe , thrust with a Rapier , Bleeding at the Nose , Bloody-Flux , or bleeding in - wardly , and Women after Childbearing , or any other excess of Bleeding whatsoever : Take five or six drops of the Blood in a piece of clean Cloth , put a little of the Powder on it , then put up the Cloth in a warm decent place , it stops it to Admiration ; and if the Blood is brought a far off , and it is dried up coming so far , warm a little Water , and moisten the Blood on the Cloth , then apply the Powder , it stops it , if it comes 40 , or 50 , or 100 Miles off ; and not only stops Bleeding , but also , if it be a Wound , or Cut , it takes away the Pain , and cures the Wound without Play - ster . Them that are troubled with the Toothache , bleed your Gums two or three drops in a clean Rag , and apply the Powder , it takes away the Pain immediately . He has also another most Admirable Powder for Women in La - bour , that causeth a speedy and safe Delivery . The Powder of Sympathy is Sealed up in Boxes , and Papers , with the Eagle and Child . 2 s . 6 worser . the Box , and 1 s . the Paper . He has also all sorts of Medicines for all Curable Diseases , if you please to come to his Chamber . He Lodges at the Sign of thee in street , V The Powder of Sympathy , Prepared at Florence , by Dominico Gratiano , Grician . THIS most excellent Powder stauncheth all manner of Bleeding , present , and at a distance , by applying the least Grain of it upon the Blood , taken in a clean Handkerchief or Rag , it stops it immediately , though it bleeds never so fast , let the Accident be what it will , a Vein cut , or a cut with a Sword , Knife , Axe , thrust with a Rapier , Bleeding at the Nose , Bloody-Flux , or bleeding in - wardly , and Women after Child bearing , or any other excess of Bleeding whatsoever : Take five or six drops of the Blood in a piece of clean Cloth , pat a little of the Powder on it , then put up the Cloth in a warm decent place , it stops it to Admiration ; and if the Blood is brought a far off , and it is dried up coming so far , warm a little Water , and moisten the Blood on the Cloth , then apply the Powder , it stops it , if it comes 40 , or 50 , or 100 Miles off ; and not only stops Bleeding , but also , if it be a Wound , or Cut , it takes away the Pain , and cures the Wound without Play - ster . Them that are troubled with the Toothache , bleed your Gums two or three drops in a clean Rag , and apply the Powder , it takes away the Pain immediately . He has also another most Admirable Powder for Women in La - bour , that causeth a speedy and safe Delivery . The Powder of Sympathy is Sealed up in Boxes , and Papers , with the Eagle and Child . 2 s . 6 worser . the Box , and 1 s the Paper . He has also all sorts of Medicines for all Curable Diseases , if you please to come to his Chamber . He Lodges at the Sign of thee in street , The Powder of Sympathy , Prepared at Florence , by Dominico Gratiano , Grecian . THIS most excellent Powder stauncheth all manner of Bleeding , present , and at a distance , by applying the least Grain of it upon the Blood , taken in a clean Handkerchief or Rag , it stops it immediately , though it bleeds never so fast , let the Accident be what it will , a Vein cut , or a cut with a Sword , Knife , Axe , thrust with a Rapier , Bleeding at the Nose , Bloody-Flux , or bleeding in - wardly , and Women after Childbearing , or any other excess of Bleeding whatsoever : Take five or six drops of the Blood in a piece of clean Cloth , put a little of the Powder on it , then put up the Cloth in a warm decent place , it stops it to Admiration ; and if the Blood is brought a far off , and it is dried up coming so far , warm a little Water , and moisten the Blood on the Cloth , then apply the Powder , it stops it , if it comes 40 , or 50 , or 100 Miles off ; and not only stops Bleeding , but also , if it be a Wound , or Cut , it takes away the Pain , and cures the Wound without Play - ster . Them that are troubled with the Toothache , bleed your Gums two or three drops in a clean Rag , and apply the Powder , it takes away the Pain immediately . He has also another most Admirable Powder for Women in La - bour , that causeth a speedy and safe Delivery . The Powder of Sympathy is Sealed up in Boxes , and Papers , with the Eagle and Child . 2 s . 6 worser . the Box , and 1 s . the Paper . He has also all sorts of Medicines for all Curable Diseases , if you please to come to his Chamber . He Lodges at the Sign of thee in street , 