UNIVERSITY ANSWER To the Pretended UNIVERSITY BALLAD . I . WE receiv'd your Advice as good Daughters should do , Fa la , etc Not doubting the least , but the Mother was true , Fa la , etc Not doubting , etc When you prov'd nothing like her at second Review . Fa la , etc II Thus Jacob the Younger by the Means of a Plot , Fa la , The Blessing design'd for the Eldest Son , god , Fa la , The Blessing , etc And was taken by Isaac for what he was not . Fa , la , III . His Face and his Hands , his Garment and Hair , Fa , la , Imposed on the Patriarch's Fatherly Care , Fa , la , etc Imposed , etc Till his Voice made the Cheat most apparently clear . Fa , la , etc IV. E'en so 'twas with us , who deceiv'd at first Sighed , Fa , la , Took the Parent of Darkness for the Parent of Light , Fa , la , etc Took , etc Till the Tone of the Voice set us Both in the right . Fa , la , etc V. Believe us Dissembler , thy Shifts and Escapes , Fa , la , Thy Fetches and Projects , thy Forms and thy Shapes , Fa , la , etc Thy , etc Can't Inveigle the Wise to Relish sour Grapes . Fa , la , VI . Tho' Woodcocks in Southwark mistake thy Designs , Fa , la , etc And the Mobb take Delight in thy plausible Rhimes , Fa , la , etc And the Mobb , etc Like Fish who bite on , Spite of Hooks and of Lines , Fa , la , etc VII . Yet know that D'Foe in the Church's Disguise , Fa , la , Can't make us believe his Inventions and Lies , Fa , la , Can't , etc Tho' he seem to be just and very Precise . Fa , la , etc VIII . We dare to be True to the Church and the Nation , Fa , la , etc In Spite of thy Arts , and thy Mock Moderation , Fa , la , etc In Spite , etc And the Patriot Sir H. his Sham Vindication . Fa , la , etc IX . Tho' Legions and Black-Lists deal about their Alarms , Fa , la , etc And Scandalous Pamphlets fly about us in Swarms , Fa , la , etc And , etc Tho' D'Foe preaches Peace to Invite us to Arms. Fa , la , X. Tho' our Heads are Traduc'd with Design to Oppose , Fa , la , etc The Candidate thou wou'dst have nowhere be Chosen , Fa , la , etc The , etc Tho' Libels are scatter'd both in Verse and in Prose . Fa , la , etc XI . Yet M ------ th who Scorns all degenerate Ends , Fa , la , Whose Heart to the Centre of Loyalty tends , Fa , la , Whose , etc Shall never want Votes while Religion has Friends , Fa , la , etc XII . Nor shalt thou Detract from our Wh ------ ck's Desert , Fa , la , etc Who has found out your Tricks , and is and honest Convert , Fa , la ; etc Who , etc And does make up with Zeal what is wanting in Art. Fa , la , etc XIII . He will not give back , nor at his Friends grudge , Fa , la , etc If they bid him Attack a Bishop or ------ Judge , Fa , la , If , etc For at Hunting a F -- x he is a true Drudge . Fa , la , etc XIV . And as for his Oaths he is Able to pay , Fa , la , etc And not like De Foe to Skulk out of the way , Fa , la , And , etc And neither Poor nor's Creditors one Penny to pay . Fa , la , etc XV . Tho' he make not many Speeches , he has a good Nose , Fa , la , etc And will always give Vote for Impeaching of those , Fa , la , etc And , etc Who on the Prince and the People do plainly Impose . Fa , la , etc XVI . Elections are Free , and we'll freely Bestow Fa , la , etc Our Votes on such Men , as now we do know , Fa , la , Fa , la , etc Our , etc Do hate your Distinction of High and of Low , Fa , la , XVII . Our Members shall be such as will not shrink back , Fa , la , etc Since the Best of our Laws have been gain'd by a Tack Fa , la , etc Since , etc Tho' each get the Name of Sach ------ ll or Jack . Fa , la , XVIII . Not one of our Members shall Sneak from the Clause , Fa , la , etc But stand in the Gap in Defence of our Cause , Fa , la , But , etc And deserve our Esteem and the Nations Applause , Fa , la , etc XIX . Tho' Kit-Kats made Drs. perhaps may suppose , Fa , la , etc We are bound to agree with their Yea and their Noes , Fa , la , etc We , etc Yet they'll find themselves very much out in the Close . Fa , la , etc XX . For neither Nob's Council , nor the Drs. made Knights , Fa , la , etc Shall be Keepers of our University Rights , Fa , la , etc Shall , etc But who meet with their Favours , shall meet with our Slights . Fa , la , etc XXI . Thus the Tables may turn once more of our side , Fa , la , The Whigs may abate of their Insolent Pride , Fa , la , The Whigs , etc And Anna's Best Friends under Anna may Guide . Fa , la , etc FINIS . [ ? ] 170 [ 5 ] P [ rice ? ] Penny UNIVERSITY ANSWER To the Pretended UNIVERSITY BALLAD . I . WE receiv'd your Advice as good Daughters should do , Fa la , etc Not doubting the least , but the Mother was true , Fa la , etc Not doubting , etc When you prov'd nothing like her at second Review . Fa la , etc II Thus Jacob the Younger by the Means of a Plot , Fa la , The Blessing design'd for the Eldest Son , god , Fa la , The Blessing , etc And was taken by Isaac for what he was not . Fa , la , III . His Face and his Hands , his Garment and Hair , Fa , la , Imposed on the Patriarch's Fatherly Care , Fa , la , etc Imposed , etc Till his Voice made the Cheat most apparently clear . Fa , la , etc IV. E'en so 'twas with us , who deceiv'd at first Sighed , Fa , la , Took the Parent of Darkness for the Parent of Light , Fa , la , etc Took , etc Till the Tone of the Voice set us Both in the right . Fa , la , etc V. Believe us Dissembler , thy Shifts and Escapes , Fa , la , Thy Fetches and Projects , thy Forms and thy Shapes , Fa , la , etc Thy , etc Can't Inveigle the Wise to Relish sour Grapes . Fa , la , VI . Tho' Woodcocks in Southwark mistake thy Designs , Fa , la , etc And the Mobb take Delight in thy plausible Rhimes , Fa , la , etc And the Mobb , etc Like Fish who bite on , Spite of Hooks and of Lines , Fa , la , etc VII . Yet know that D'Foe in the Church's Disguise , Fa , la , Can't make us believe his Inventions and Lies , Fa , la , Can't , etc Tho' he seem to be just and very Precise . Fa , la , etc VIII . We dare to be True to the Church and the Nation , Fa , la , etc In Spite of thy Arts , and thy Mock Moderation , Fa , la , etc In Spite , etc And the Patriot Sir H. his Sham Vindication . Fa , la , etc IX . Tho' Legions and Black-Lists deal about their Alarms , Fa , la , etc And Scandalous Pamphlets fly about us in Swarms , Fa , la , etc And , etc Tho' D'Foe preaches Peace to Invite us to Arms. Fa , la , X. Tho' our Heads are Traduc'd with Design to Oppose , Fa , la , etc The Candidate thou wou'dst have nowhere be Chosen , Fa , la , etc The , etc Tho' Libels are scatter'd both in Verse and in Prose . Fa , la , etc XI . Yet M ------ th who Scorns all degenerate Ends , Fa , la , Whose Heart to the Centre of Loyalty tends , Fa , la , Whose , etc Shall never want Votes while Religion has Friends , Fa , la , etc XII . Nor shalt thou Detract from our Wh ------ ck's Desert , Fa , la , etc Who has found out your Tricks , and is and honest Convert , Fa , la ; etc Who , etc And does make up with Zeal what is wanting in Art. Fa , la , etc XIII . He will not give back , nor at his Friends grudge , Fa , la , etc If they bid him Attack a Bishop or ------ Judge , Fa , la , If , etc For at Hunting a F -- x he is a true Drudge . Fa , la , etc XIV . And as for his Oaths he is Able to pay , Fa , la , etc And not like De Foe to Skulk out of the way , Fa , la , And , etc And neither Poor nor's Creditors one Penny to pay . Fa , la , etc XV . Tho' he make not many Speeches , he has a good Nose , Fa , la , etc And will always give Vote for Impeaching of those , Fa , la , etc And , etc Who on the Prince and the People do plainly Impose . Fa , la , etc XVI . Elections are Free , and we'll freely Bestow Fa , la , etc Our Votes on such Men , as now we do know , Fa , la , Fa , la , etc Our , etc Do hate your Distinction of High and of Low , Fa , la , XVII . Our Members shall be such as will not shrink back , Fa , la , etc Since the Best of our Laws have been gain'd by a Tack Fa , la , etc Since , etc Tho' each get the Name of Sach ------ ll or Jack . Fa , la , XVIII . Not one of our Members shall Sneak from the Clause , Fa , la , etc But stand in the Gap in Defence of our Cause , Fa , la , But , etc And deserve our Esteem and the Nations Applause , Fa , la , etc XIX . Tho' Kit-Kats made Drs. perhaps may suppose , Fa , la , etc We are bound to agree with their Yea and their Noes , Fa , la , etc We , etc Yet they'll find themselves very much out in the Close . Fa , la , etc XX . For neither Nob's Council , nor the Drs. made Knights , Fa , la , etc Shall be Keepers of our University Rights , Fa , la , etc Shall , etc But who meet with their Favours , shall meet with our Slights . Fa , la , etc XXI . Thus the Tables may turn once more of our side , Fa , la , The Whigs may abate of their Insolent Pride , Fa , la , The Whigs , etc And Anna's Best Friends under Anna may Guide . Fa , la , etc FINIS . [ ? ] 170 [ 5 ] P [ rice ? ] Penny 