The Faithful Young Man & Constant Maid ; OR , The Unexpressable Love between sweet WILLIAM and fair ELENOR . To the Tune of , The Plowman's Health . This may be Printed . R. P. WE will leave all the thoughts of the world for a while and in this sweet Grove and hour beguile , We will ever resolve to be constant and true And Innocent Joys we will now renew , To my Fair pretty Elinor faithful I'le prove , If beauteous young Elinor me will love ; To my fair pretty Elenor , faithful i'le prove , if , etc I will love my sweet William above all mankind , And ever be true , and at all times kind , All young Lovers hereafter shall learn by us two , To be always constant , and always true , No Fortune shall make me , from thee er'e depart And to my sweet William i'le give my Heart ; No Fortune shall make me from thee e're depart , And , etc No Youth to a Beauty more constant shall be , Then I will be always , ( fair maid ) to thee No Fortune or Fate , shall extinguish this Fire , Nor no other Beauty create desire , 'Tis only fair Elenor that I will love And ever to her will I constant prove . 'Tis only fair Elenor that I will love , and ever , etc When Marriage shall bring me into thy soft Arms , How happy shall I be in thy charms ? How happy each day , and how happy each night ? The day bringing Pleasure , the night Delight . I shall then be happy all days of my Life , Possessing all Joys in a virtuous Wife , I shall then be happy all days of my Life , Possessing , etc We will leave this lewd World to it's wretched Estate , And now we will love before 'tis too late , Each Grove , and each Fountain a witness shall prove , How dearly wee'l live , and how well wee'l Love . The Pleasures of Lovers we here shall obtain , And after we shall in Elysium reign ; The Pleasures of Lovers we here shall obtain , And , etc If lovely fair Maids will resolve to be coy They lose those sweet minutes they might enjoy , If Beauty , to Beauty , will only be kind , Young Maids to themselves must be then confin'd , And Lovers but vainly those Beauty's do serve ; But Maidens may give what Men don't deserve , And Lovers but vainly those Beauty's do serve , But , etc Then let us enjoy while our Passion are strong A minutes delay will appear too long , Though Beauty is lovely and always does please , 'Tis kindness that only can Flames appease , 'Tis kindness that always creates a desire , And is the sweet Fuel to Cupids Fire ; 'Tis kindness that always creates a desire . And , etc Fair Elenor thus let us Pleasures pursue , And let us ( like Turtles ) be ever true , That young Men & Maidens our praise may proclaim And by our example may live in Fame , That Ages hereafter may learn for to prove , More true and more constant , and always Love , That Ages hereafter may learn to prove , More True and Constant , and always Love . Printed for J. Back at the Black Boy near the Draw - Bridge on London-Bridge . The Faithful Young Man & Constant Maid ; OR , The Unexpressable Love between sweet WILLIAM and fair ELENOR . To the Tune of , The Plowman's Health . This may be Printed . R. P. WE will leave all the thoughts of the world for a while and in this sweet Grove and hour beguile , We will ever resolve to be constant and true And Innocent Joys we will now renew , To my Fair pretty Elinor faithful I'le prove , If beauteous young Elinor me will love ; To my fair pretty Elenor , faithful i'le prove , if , etc I will love my sweet William above all mankind , And ever be true , and at all times kind , All young Lovers hereafter shall learn by us two , To be always constant , and always true , No Fortune shall make me , from thee er'e depart And to my sweet William i'le give my Heart ; No Fortune shall make me from thee e're depart , And , etc No Youth to a Beauty more constant shall be , Then I will be always , ( fair maid ) to thee No Fortune or Fate , shall extinguish this Fire , Nor no other Beauty create desire , 'Tis only fair Elenor that I will love And ever to her will I constant prove . 'Tis only fair Elenor that I will love , and ever , etc When Marriage shall bring me into thy soft Arms , How happy shall I be in thy charms ? How happy each day , and how happy each night ? The day bringing Pleasure , the night Delight . I shall then be happy all days of my Life , Possessing all Joys in a virtuous Wife , I shall then be happy all days of my Life , Possessing , etc We will leave this lewd World to it's wretched Estate , And now we will love before 'tis too late , Each Grove , and each Fountain a witness shall prove , How dearly wee'l live , and how well wee'l Love . The Pleasures of Lovers we here shall obtain , And after we shall in Elysium reign ; The Pleasures of Lovers we here shall obtain , And , etc If lovely fair Maids will resolve to be coy They lose those sweet minutes they might enjoy , If Beauty , to Beauty , will only be kind , Young Maids to themselves must be then confin'd , And Lovers but vainly those Beauty's do serve ; But Maidens may give what Men don't deserve , And Lovers but vainly those Beauty's do serve , But , etc Then let us enjoy while our Passion are strong A minutes delay will appear too long , Though Beauty is lovely and always does please , 'Tis kindness that only can Flames appease , 'Tis kindness that always creates a desire , And is the sweet Fuel to Cupids Fire ; 'Tis kindness that always creates a desire . And , etc Fair Elenor thus let us Pleasures pursue , And let us ( like Turtles ) be ever true , That young Men & Maidens our praise may proclaim And by our example may live in Fame , That Ages hereafter may learn for to prove , More true and more constant , and always Love , That Ages hereafter may learn to prove , More True and Constant , and always Love . Printed for J. Back at the Black Boy near the Draw - Bridge on London-Bridge . 