Crafty KATE of CHOLCHESTER : OR , THE False hearted Clothier Frighted into good manners . Tune of , the j [ e ] alous Lover , or Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . YOU that in merriment delight , Pray listen now to what I write , Then will you satisfaction find , to Cure a melancholy mind . A Damsel liv'd in Colchester , And there a Clothier Courted her , For two months space both night and day , And yet the Damsel said him nay . the Cloathier's son he then Reply [ 'd ] , If you Refuse to be my bride , it soon will prove my Overthrow , then dearest do not answer no . Said she were i to Love inclin'd , perhaps you soon would change your mind And Court some other Damsel fair , For men are falese i do declare by all that's good my dearest love i never will unfaithful prove , then grant me what i do request , So shall we both be ever blessed . He many protestations made , And like a loyal lover said : There's none but thee shall be my Wife , The joy and comfort of my life . This said at length she gave consent , To marry him , likewise they went , Unto her friends and Parents who Did grant their love and liking too , But see the fruits of cursed gold , He left his loyal love behold , With and sorrows compas'd round , When he a greater fortune found . A [ L ] awyer's Daughter fair and bright , Her Parents joy and hearts delight , He was resolv'd to make his spouse , Denying all his former Vows , Now When the damsel came to hear , That she must loose her only dear , And for the Lawyer's Daughters sake . Thought she some sport with him i'll make , She knew that e'ry night he came From his new love Nancy by Name , Sometime at ten a Clock or more , Kate to a tanner went therefore . She borrow'd there and old Cowhide , With crooked horns both large and wide , And having wrapped her self therein , She did her new intrigue begin . she in a lonesome Field did stay , the Clothier came at length that way , Where he was sorely scar'd by her She look't so like old Lucifer . A hairy Hide , Horns on her head , Which full three foot asunder spread , Beside he see a long black tail , He strove to run but feet did fail . She quickly seiz'd him by the Coat , then with a grim and dreadful Note She cry'd you leave poor Kate , I hear , And woe the Lawyer's Daughter dear , since you have been so false to her , You perjur'd Knave of Colechester , you shall whither you will or no , Unto my gloomy Region go . this voice did so affrighten him , that there he trembl'd e'ry Limb ; Sweet Master Devil spare me now , And i'll perform my former vow . i'll make youn Kate my lawful bride ; Well see you do the Devil cry'd , Or you shall hear of me again , if Kate against you does complain . then home he went , tho' very late , He ne'er imagin'd this was Kate , that put him into such a fright , therefore-next day by morning light , He went to Kate and married her , For fear of this old Lucifer : Her friends and parents thought it strange there should be such a sudden change . Kate did not let her parents know , Nor any other Friend or Foe , till she a year had marry'd been , then told it at her Gossiping . it plea'd the women to the heart , who said she bravely play [ ' ] worser , her part , Her husband laughed as well as they , this was a Jovial merry [ day ] Crafty KATE of CHOLCHESTER : OR , THE False hearted Clothier Frighted into good manners . Tune of , the j [ e ] alous Lover , or Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . YOU that in merriment delight , Pray listen now to what I write , Then will you satisfaction find , to Cure a melancholy mind . A Damsel liv'd in Colchester , And there a Clothier Courted her , For two months space both night and day , And yet the Damsel said him nay . the Cloathier's son he then Reply [ 'd ] , If you Refuse to be my bride , it soon will prove my Overthrow , then dearest do not answer no . Said she were i to Love inclin'd , perhaps you soon would change your mind And Court some other Damsel fair , For men are falese i do declare by all that's good my dearest love i never will unfaithful prove , then grant me what i do request , So shall we both be ever blessed . He many protestations made , And like a loyal lover said : There's none but thee shall be my Wife , The joy and comfort of my life . This said at length she gave consent , To marry him , likewise they went , Unto her friends and Parents who Did grant their love and liking too , But see the fruits of cursed gold , He left his loyal love behold , With and sorrows compas'd round , When he a greater fortune found . A [ L ] awyer's Daughter fair and bright , Her Parents joy and hearts delight , He was resolv'd to make his spouse , Denying all his former Vows , Now When the damsel came to hear , That she must loose her only dear , And for the Lawyer's Daughters sake . Thought she some sport with him i'll make , She knew that e'ry night he came From his new love Nancy by Name , Sometime at ten a Clock or more , Kate to a tanner went therefore . She borrow'd there and old Cowhide , With crooked horns both large and wide , And having wrapped her self therein , She did her new intrigue begin . she in a lonesome Field did stay , the Clothier came at length that way , Where he was sorely scar'd by her She look't so like old Lucifer . A hairy Hide , Horns on her head , Which full three foot asunder spread , Beside he see a long black tail , He strove to run but feet did fail . She quickly seiz'd him by the Coat , then with a grim and dreadful Note She cry'd you leave poor Kate , I hear , And woe the Lawyer's Daughter dear , since you have been so false to her , You perjur'd Knave of Colechester , you shall whither you will or no , Unto my gloomy Region go . this voice did so affrighten him , that there he trembl'd e'ry Limb ; Sweet Master Devil spare me now , And i'll perform my former vow . i'll make youn Kate my lawful bride ; Well see you do the Devil cry'd , Or you shall hear of me again , if Kate against you does complain . then home he went , tho' very late , He ne'er imagin'd this was Kate , that put him into such a fright , therefore-next day by morning light , He went to Kate and married her , For fear of this old Lucifer : Her friends and parents thought it strange there should be such a sudden change . Kate did not let her parents know , Nor any other Friend or Foe , till she a year had marry'd been , then told it at her Gossiping . it plea'd the women to the heart , who said she bravely play [ ' ] worser , her part , Her husband laughed as well as they , this was a Jovial merry [ day ] 