Teague and Sawney : OR , The Unfortunate Success of a Dear-Joy's Devotion by Saint PATRICK's Cross , BEING Transform'd into the De'els Whirlegig . To the Tune of Lilli burlero . YOU that love Mirth , give ear to my Song , a Moment you never can better employ : Sawney and Teague were marching along , a bonny Scotch Loon , and and Irish Dear-Joy : They had never seen a Windmill , nor had they herd of any such name ; As they were walking , and merrily talking , last by geud chance to Windmill they came . Zwoonds , says Sawney , what d' y' call thot ? to tell its geud Name I am at a loss : Teague very readily answer'd the Scot , Be Chreest I believe it's St. Patrick's Cross . Sir , said Sawney , y' are mistaken , for it's St. Andrew's Cross I will swear , There is his Bonnet , and Garment hangs on it , the muckle geud Saint dis in Edinborough wear . Nay , by my shoul , thou tellest all Lees , for that I will swear is St. Patrick's Coat ; I see him in Ireland a buying the Frieze , and that is the same St. Patrick bough He's a better Saint than ever hungry Scotland e'er did breed ; By my Shalwashion he was my Relaushion , and had a great kindness for honest poor Teague . Therefore , says Teague , I will , by my shoul , now lay down my Arms and pluck out my Beads , Under this geud holy Cross will I fallen and say Pater Noster and some of our Creeds : Teague began with great Devotion for to adore St. Patrick's Cross ; The Wind set a blowing , and turn'd the Sails going , and gave my Dear-Joy , a damnable toss . Sawney laughed to see how poor Teague lay scratching his Ears on top of the Grass , Swearing by Chreest , 'twas the De'els Whirlegig , and none , he was sure , of St. Patrick's Cross . Teague cry'd out in a mighty Passion , Ah [ ! ] by my shoul , I'm very much soar ; By my Shalwashion , this shall be a caution , to trust to St. Patrick's kindness no more . Sawney to Teague then scoffingly cry'd , St. Patrick was but a very sad Loon , To hit you such a soar bang on the hide , for kneeling before him , and [ worser asking a ] Boon : Prithee Teague serve geum [ worser ] [ ? ] he , by my sho [ ul ] [ ? ] Since your [ ? ? ? ] I'd [ ? ? ? ] Teague and Sawney : OR , The Unfortunate Success of a Dear-Joy's Devotion by Saint PATRICK's Cross , BEING Transform'd into the De'els Whirlegig . To the Tune of Lilli burlero . YOU that love Mirth , give ear to my Song , a Moment you never can better employ : Sawney and Teague were marching along , a bonny Scotch Loon , and and Irish Dear-Joy : They had never seen a Windmill , nor had they herd of any such name ; As they were walking , and merrily talking , last by geud chance to Windmill they came . Zwoonds , says Sawney , what d' y' call thot ? to tell its geud Name I am at a loss : Teague very readily answer'd the Scot , Be Chreest I believe it's St. Patrick's Cross . Sir , said Sawney , y' are mistaken , for it's St. Andrew's Cross I will swear , There is his Bonnet , and Garment hangs on it , the muckle geud Saint dis in Edinborough wear . Nay , by my shoul , thou tellest all Lees , for that I will swear is St. Patrick's Coat ; I see him in Ireland a buying the Frieze , and that is the same St. Patrick bough He's a better Saint than ever hungry Scotland e'er did breed ; By my Shalwashion he was my Relaushion , and had a great kindness for honest poor Teague . Therefore , says Teague , I will , by my shoul , now lay down my Arms and pluck out my Beads , Under this geud holy Cross will I fallen and say Pater Noster and some of our Creeds : Teague began with great Devotion for to adore St. Patrick's Cross ; The Wind set a blowing , and turn'd the Sails going , and gave my Dear-Joy , a damnable toss . Sawney laughed to see how poor Teague lay scratching his Ears on top of the Grass , Swearing by Chreest , 'twas the De'els Whirlegig , and none , he was sure , of St. Patrick's Cross . Teague cry'd out in a mighty Passion , Ah [ ! ] by my shoul , I'm very much soar ; By my Shalwashion , this shall be a caution , to trust to St. Patrick's kindness no more . Sawney to Teague then scoffingly cry'd , St. Patrick was but a very sad Loon , To hit you such a soar bang on the hide , for kneeling before him , and [ worser asking a ] Boon : Prithee Teague serve geum [ worser ] [ ? ] he , by my sho [ ul ] [ ? ] Since your [ ? ? ? ] I'd [ ? ? ? ] 