The Wandering Virgin ; OR , The Coy Lass well fitted ; or , the Answer to the wand'ring Maiden . Virgins whose coyness and disdain does prove The fatal ruin of cemented Love , Learn and beware lest you like me cry out I'le find my Love , or search the world about To a pleasant New Tune , Over Hills and High Mountains . YOu Virgins so pretty hear what I relate , My case you may pity , take heed of my Fate : How I was forsaken you'l hear it throughout , But i'le travel the world o're to find my Love out . Since I was the cause that he first did disdain , My overmuch coyness does make him refrain : But now I must blush that it comes so about , I would give all the world I could find my love out . Then straight my green Gown into breeches i'le make , And my long yellow Locks much shorter i'le take : I'le wander , i'le wander , i'le wander about , And il'e search all the world for to find my Love out . I'le get me switch and a sword by my side , A Horse , Boots and Spurs . and i'le get up and ride : I'le wander , i'le wander i'le wander about , I'le search all the world for to find my Love out . MY Love was a seemly and proper young youth Though he did dissemble I took all for truth , So crafty in courtship I never did doubt But idem give all the World I could search my Love out . His forehead was smooth and his locks they were curl'd And him I ador'd above all in the world : His Tongue went so smoothly in Courtship profound That I must have my Love . though I search the world round . His Musical voice it did make me admire His courtship and carriage did set me on fire : I lov'd him so dearly which makes me cry out I find him , or wander the world all about . What fancy hath took him I much do admire That he should reject the Love he did require : And since he is gone I will wander about And i'le search all the world but i'le find my love out . My breath it grows short and my face pale and wan Which makes me admire the power of the Man : My heart it does tremble , which makes me to doubt I shall want of my Wits if I find him not out . Since Love I adore thee , why should'st thou disdain The suit of thy Lover , that's subject to pain ? Be kinder unto me , and ease all my doubt For i'le search all the world but i'le find my Love out . I'le travel the Deserts , where fancy me leads , Through Groves , Fields , & Forests through Fountains and Moats , To find out my dearest i'le gallop about , And I'le range the wide world , for to find my Love out . I'le search over England , to see if't contain ; If not , i'le turn Sailor , to search on the Main , The Ocean , so boundless , i'le travel about , I'le range the wide world , but i'le find my Love out . My Maidenhead Jewel it is still my own ; But if he had ask'd me , be sure it had gone : Then Maids have a care , lest like me you cry out , I'le find him , or wander the world all about . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pyecorner . The Wandering Virgin ; OR , The Coy Lass well fitted ; or , the Answer to the wand'ring Maiden . Virgins whose coyness and disdain does prove The fatal ruin of cemented Love , Learn and beware lest you like me cry out I'le find my Love , or search the world about To a pleasant New Tune , Over Hills and High Mountains . YOu Virgins so pretty hear what I relate , My case you may pity , take heed of my Fate : How I was forsaken you'l hear it throughout , But i'le travel the world o're to find my Love out . Since I was the cause that he first did disdain , My overmuch coyness does make him refrain : But now I must blush that it comes so about , I would give all the world I could find my love out . Then straight my green Gown into breeches i'le make , And my long yellow Locks much shorter i'le take : I'le wander , i'le wander , i'le wander about , And il'e search all the world for to find my Love out . I'le get me switch and a sword by my side , A Horse , Boots and Spurs . and i'le get up and ride : I'le wander , i'le wander i'le wander about , I'le search all the world for to find my Love out . MY Love was a seemly and proper young youth Though he did dissemble I took all for truth , So crafty in courtship I never did doubt But idem give all the World I could search my Love out . His forehead was smooth and his locks they were curl'd And him I ador'd above all in the world : His Tongue went so smoothly in Courtship profound That I must have my Love . though I search the world round . His Musical voice it did make me admire His courtship and carriage did set me on fire : I lov'd him so dearly which makes me cry out I find him , or wander the world all about . What fancy hath took him I much do admire That he should reject the Love he did require : And since he is gone I will wander about And i'le search all the world but i'le find my love out . My breath it grows short and my face pale and wan Which makes me admire the power of the Man : My heart it does tremble , which makes me to doubt I shall want of my Wits if I find him not out . Since Love I adore thee , why should'st thou disdain The suit of thy Lover , that's subject to pain ? Be kinder unto me , and ease all my doubt For i'le search all the world but i'le find my Love out . I'le travel the Deserts , where fancy me leads , Through Groves , Fields , & Forests through Fountains and Moats , To find out my dearest i'le gallop about , And I'le range the wide world , for to find my Love out . I'le search over England , to see if't contain ; If not , i'le turn Sailor , to search on the Main , The Ocean , so boundless , i'le travel about , I'le range the wide world , but i'le find my Love out . My Maidenhead Jewel it is still my own ; But if he had ask'd me , be sure it had gone : Then Maids have a care , lest like me you cry out , I'le find him , or wander the world all about . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pyecorner . 