The Contented Cuckold , or Patience upon force is a Medicine for a Mad Man. You bachelors both young and old give ear unto this ditty , A story here I will unfold in mirth I hope it will fit you , A bachelor of threescore years a Damsel young did marry Now he complains she does him wrong and basely does miscarry : Near Worksworth Town in Derbyshire this couple they do dwell , With patience pray this ditty hear and then I bid farewell . To the Tune , She cannot hold her Legs together . YOu young Men all to you I call whither you live in Town or City , A Warning take by this my fallen which I shall declare in this my ditty When as you do a Wooing go pray have a care you be not scorned , For if fortune say it must be so you soon may come for to be horned . A Bachelor full threescore years I lived long in joy and pleasure , I was quite v [ oh ] id of grief and cares I had house & Land & store of Treasure , I did provide Money to hide , at last blind Cupid he me Wounded , W [ it ] h a da [ rt ] of Love but now I can prove [ m ] y heart with grief is almost drowned . Then to Cupids Court I did resort and there I met with Venus Sister , Full threescore pound a true report I gave for Mally would God I had missed her To make her gay I slung away full ten pound more to buy her clothing Still my Estate goes to decay for to Cuckold me she counts it nothing . All Derbyshire could not compare with pretty Mally for Wit and beauty I thought she was a Jewel rare which made me dote in love and duty With a Forehead high and Ruling eye which signifies that she loves sporting , She scorns with me now for to lie but to , etc A Young Man living in the Town has stolen from me her love & duty , No comfort I get but a frown not scarce a look upon her beauty : For all her delight both day and night is in his company for sporting The boys cry Cuckoo in my sighs [ tO ] for to Cuckold me she counts it nothing . My aged looks she does disdain with taunts and jears I now am scorned My bed likewise she does refrain by Dick it is I must be horned , Thus Marry she abuseth me which makes my friends to jear & scoff me And the boys cry Cuckoo in my sighed because Dick does make a Cukold of me My means they Wast both night and day most wilfully without all measure My Goods and Cattle is their prey they seek all means to Wast my treasure While they do Sing my hands I Wring which makes my friends to jear & scoff me And the boys , etc Now may I sighs lament and mourn I do confess it was my folly , Now I may I fit like and idle drone or like one struck in a Melancholy , While Marry and Dick does play the trick of Put In , Or else get of me , In house or barn if weather warm there Dick must make a Cuckold of me . Thus night and day they spend away their time in this unlawful carriage , Which makes me cry as well I may , to curse the day and time of Marriage My Garments bore and my White Hair and my Foreman with her is scorned , The boys cries Cuckoo to my face and says that Dick my head has horned You Bachelors and married men whither you live in Town or City , Let me entreat you once again to read this harmless ditty , No harm at all is in this Wall - For all poor Robin now is scorned , Pray do not jear at Robin here you know not who may next be horned . Now the Proverb old I think upon says a Cuckold is a good men fellow My time is spent I must be gone come fill's a cup of Ale that's mellow For Mal and Dick will play the trick of Put In , Or else get of me , In house or barn etc Now to conclude and make and end hoping I have no Man offended , Nor yet done wrong to any friend he that thinks so pray let him mend it , For Marry and Dick will play the trick of Put In , Or else get of me , And the boys cry Cuckoo to my face because Dick does make a Cuckold of me . Finis . T.R. Printed for Thomas Passenger at the three bibles on London-bridge . The Contented Cuckold , or Patience upon force is a Medicine for a Mad Man. You bachelors both young and old give ear unto this ditty , A story here I will unfold in mirth I hope it will fit you , A bachelor of threescore years a Damsel young did marry Now he complains she does him wrong and basely does miscarry : Near Worksworth Town in Derbyshire this couple they do dwell , With patience pray this ditty hear and then I bid farewell . To the Tune , She cannot hold her Legs together . YOu young Men all to you I call whither you live in Town or City , A Warning take by this my fallen which I shall declare in this my ditty When as you do a Wooing go pray have a care you be not scorned , For if fortune say it must be so you soon may come for to be horned . A Bachelor full threescore years I lived long in joy and pleasure , I was quite v [ oh ] id of grief and cares I had house & Land & store of Treasure , I did provide Money to hide , at last blind Cupid he me Wounded , W [ it ] h a da [ rt ] of Love but now I can prove [ m ] y heart with grief is almost drowned . Then to Cupids Court I did resort and there I met with Venus Sister , Full threescore pound a true report I gave for Mally would God I had missed her To make her gay I slung away full ten pound more to buy her clothing Still my Estate goes to decay for to Cuckold me she counts it nothing . All Derbyshire could not compare with pretty Mally for Wit and beauty I thought she was a Jewel rare which made me dote in love and duty With a Forehead high and Ruling eye which signifies that she loves sporting , She scorns with me now for to lie but to , etc A Young Man living in the Town has stolen from me her love & duty , No comfort I get but a frown not scarce a look upon her beauty : For all her delight both day and night is in his company for sporting The boys cry Cuckoo in my sighs [ tO ] for to Cuckold me she counts it nothing . My aged looks she does disdain with taunts and jears I now am scorned My bed likewise she does refrain by Dick it is I must be horned , Thus Marry she abuseth me which makes my friends to jear & scoff me And the boys cry Cuckoo in my sighed because Dick does make a Cukold of me My means they Wast both night and day most wilfully without all measure My Goods and Cattle is their prey they seek all means to Wast my treasure While they do Sing my hands I Wring which makes my friends to jear & scoff me And the boys , etc Now may I sighs lament and mourn I do confess it was my folly , Now I may I fit like and idle drone or like one struck in a Melancholy , While Marry and Dick does play the trick of Put In , Or else get of me , In house or barn if weather warm there Dick must make a Cuckold of me . Thus night and day they spend away their time in this unlawful carriage , Which makes me cry as well I may , to curse the day and time of Marriage My Garments bore and my White Hair and my Foreman with her is scorned , The boys cries Cuckoo to my face and says that Dick my head has horned You Bachelors and married men whither you live in Town or City , Let me entreat you once again to read this harmless ditty , No harm at all is in this Wall - For all poor Robin now is scorned , Pray do not jear at Robin here you know not who may next be horned . Now the Proverb old I think upon says a Cuckold is a good men fellow My time is spent I must be gone come fill's a cup of Ale that's mellow For Mal and Dick will play the trick of Put In , Or else get of me , In house or barn etc Now to conclude and make and end hoping I have no Man offended , Nor yet done wrong to any friend he that thinks so pray let him mend it , For Marry and Dick will play the trick of Put In , Or else get of me , And the boys cry Cuckoo to my face because Dick does make a Cuckold of me . Finis . T.R. Printed for Thomas Passenger at the three bibles on London-bridge . 