Joyful NEWS for Maids and Young Women , Being and Account of a Ship-load of White-Puddings , brought from a far Country , and are to be Expos'd to Sale at Reasonable Rates , for the benefit of Old and Young Women . To the Tune of , The blue Bells' of Ireland . Licensed according to Order . YOung handsome Wives and Lasses , glad tidings here I tell ; A ship load of white Puddings are come to Town to fell ; And for your ready money , will use you passing well : And the Blue Bells' of Ireland , Rings well , and Rings well , And the blue Bells' of Ireland Rings ding dung Bell . These dainty curious Puddings are pleasant , sweet , and found , Some weighs near fourteen ounces , and others full a pound ; Yond cant find better Puddings , search the three Kingdoms round , blue Bells' of Ireland , rings well , etc Not far from London Tower , this Ship is riding there , Young Women they come flocking to buy this dainty ware ; You never see such crowding , in London Smithfield-Fair , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc The Millers Wife came huffing , her Tongue went like a Clapper ; For one she'd give a Tester , but faiks it was a thwacker ; And it was stuff'd as hard beside as any Squibb or Cracker , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc A Butchers Wife ne'r Shore-Ditch , was full resolv'd to go To buy a curious Pudding , for why she well did know Such food would make a Woman as fat as any Do ; And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc Then came and ancient Woman , who was both Lame and Old ; For one she gave five Shillings , as good as e're was told ; She put it in her Warming-pan , to keep it from the cold : And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc The Wife of Tom the Cooper , did like a Hector swear , Altho' she brought but ninepence , it seems , to lay out there : And for that nasty ninepence , she'd pick and cull the ware , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc The Wife of Tom the Taylor , did come to buy one then , Altho' the Goods were guarded by six or seven men : In laying out of three pence , she Cabbidg'd nine or ten , And the blue Bells' , etc A Merchant's youthful Lady , whose Husband was unkind ; She came to buy a Pudding , her pocket was well Lin'd ; She proffer'd twenty Shilling to have one to her mind , And the blue Bells' , etc There came and Old Fishwoman , Countess of Billingsgate ; And she bid ready money for all the whole Ships-Fraigh The Women up with puddings , and knocked her o're the pate : And the blue Bells' , etc They cry'd , you wretched Beldame , e're you shall buy them all , And raise them to extortion , your noddle we will mawl ; There shall be no monopolizing in this case at all , And the blue Bells' , etc Then came a Weavers Daughter from off the Turkish-Shore , And bid them Twenty Shilling to pick out half a score ; Yet e're she'd go without 'em , she proffer'd Twopence more , And the blue Bells' , etc Then come away Young Women , all you that dainties crave ; You may have for a Tester what will your longing save ; They are as fine white Puddings , as Wives can wish to have ; And the blue Bells' of Ireland Rings well , and Rings well , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , Rings ding dung Bell . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . Joyful NEWS for Maids and Young Women , Being and Account of a Ship-load of White-Puddings , brought from a far Country , and are to be Expos'd to Sale at Reasonable Rates , for the benefit of Old and Young Women . To the Tune of , The blue Bells' of Ireland . Licensed according to Order . YOung handsome Wives and Lasses , glad tidings here I tell ; A ship load of white Puddings are come to Town to fell ; And for your ready money , will use you passing well : And the Blue Bells' of Ireland , Rings well , and Rings well , And the blue Bells' of Ireland Rings ding dung Bell . These dainty curious Puddings are pleasant , sweet , and found , Some weighs near fourteen ounces , and others full a pound ; Yond cant find better Puddings , search the three Kingdoms round , blue Bells' of Ireland , rings well , etc Not far from London Tower , this Ship is riding there , Young Women they come flocking to buy this dainty ware ; You never see such crowding , in London Smithfield-Fair , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc The Millers Wife came huffing , her Tongue went like a Clapper ; For one she'd give a Tester , but faiks it was a thwacker ; And it was stuff'd as hard beside as any Squibb or Cracker , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc A Butchers Wife ne'r Shore-Ditch , was full resolv'd to go To buy a curious Pudding , for why she well did know Such food would make a Woman as fat as any Do ; And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc Then came and ancient Woman , who was both Lame and Old ; For one she gave five Shillings , as good as e're was told ; She put it in her Warming-pan , to keep it from the cold : And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc The Wife of Tom the Cooper , did like a Hector swear , Altho' she brought but ninepence , it seems , to lay out there : And for that nasty ninepence , she'd pick and cull the ware , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , etc The Wife of Tom the Taylor , did come to buy one then , Altho' the Goods were guarded by six or seven men : In laying out of three pence , she Cabbidg'd nine or ten , And the blue Bells' , etc A Merchant's youthful Lady , whose Husband was unkind ; She came to buy a Pudding , her pocket was well Lin'd ; She proffer'd twenty Shilling to have one to her mind , And the blue Bells' , etc There came and Old Fishwoman , Countess of Billingsgate ; And she bid ready money for all the whole Ships-Fraigh The Women up with puddings , and knocked her o're the pate : And the blue Bells' , etc They cry'd , you wretched Beldame , e're you shall buy them all , And raise them to extortion , your noddle we will mawl ; There shall be no monopolizing in this case at all , And the blue Bells' , etc Then came a Weavers Daughter from off the Turkish-Shore , And bid them Twenty Shilling to pick out half a score ; Yet e're she'd go without 'em , she proffer'd Twopence more , And the blue Bells' , etc Then come away Young Women , all you that dainties crave ; You may have for a Tester what will your longing save ; They are as fine white Puddings , as Wives can wish to have ; And the blue Bells' of Ireland Rings well , and Rings well , And the blue Bells' of Ireland , Rings ding dung Bell . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 