The Maidens Counsellor OR , A fair Warning before Marriage . You Damosels fair , take special Care , And not too hasty be A Marriage Life brings Care and Strife , When single Maids live free . Tune of the Spinning-Wheel . This may be Printed , R.P. YOung Damosels all , both far and near , observe the Counsel which I give ; And then I'm sure you need not fear , but that you all may happy live ; Let not young Men your hearts ensnare , A single life is free from care . Full one and twenty years and more , I am of Age full well 'tis known , And tho' I have god sweet hearts store yet I delight to lie alone ; Resolve [ ' ] worser I am to shun the snare ; A Single Life is free from Care Some Damosels does great Portions bring , Of Gold and Silver many a Pound , To those that make the Taverns Ring , until the same they quite confound ; For their poor Wives they nothing spare ; A single Life is free from Care . Have I not herd of those well bred , who never knew no want at all , Yet after being sometime Wed , they have been brought to deadly thrall ; For want alas ! full herd they fare ; A single Life is free from Care . What pleasing stories some will tell , poor harmless Damosels to betray , Swearing they Love them passing well , but 'tis their Money more then they ; But be advis'd and shun the snare ; A single life is free from Care . Beware of e'ry huffing blade , for they are subject to deceive , As being of the Lying trade , and therefore do not them believe , Altho' they Solemnly do swear ; A single life is free from Care . For while you led a single Life , your Suitor he will kindness show , But when you once are made his Wife , alas ! you'l find it nothing so ; Instead of Love perhaps he'l sware , A single life is free from Care . Bad Husbands they abroad will Rome , and take their pleasure where they please , While their poor Wives must stay at home , there is too many such as these ; With this they patiently must bear , A single life is free from Care . For when they do return at Night , from their sweet Mirth and pleasant Joys , In which they place their chief Delight ; I mean their Ranting Roaring Boys ; The Wife with this , and more must bear , A single life is free from Care . Tho' she Intreats him to refrain , while Tears does trickle from her Face , Yet alas 'tis all in vain , for he Resolves to run his Raze , And will not in the least forbear , A single life is free from Care . I pray take heed now all that's here , before the Marriage Rites are past ; It is not for a Month or Year , but full as Long as Life shall Last ; Therefore be wise , and shun the snare ; A single life is free from Care . Young Dam'sels now of each degree , be careful of your Marriage State , And take this kind advice of me , for fear Repentance comes too Late ; Do not yourselves too soon ensnare ; A single life is free from Care . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Gall in Pye-Corner . The Maidens Counsellor OR , A fair Warning before Marriage . You Damosels fair , take special Care , And not too hasty be A Marriage Life brings Care and Strife , When single Maids live free . Tune of the Spinning-Wheel . This may be Printed , R.P. YOung Damosels all , both far and near , observe the Counsel which I give ; And then I'm sure you need not fear , but that you all may happy live ; Let not young Men your hearts ensnare , A single life is free from care . Full one and twenty years and more , I am of Age full well 'tis known , And tho' I have god sweet hearts store yet I delight to lie alone ; Resolve [ ' ] worser I am to shun the snare ; A Single Life is free from Care Some Damosels does great Portions bring , Of Gold and Silver many a Pound , To those that make the Taverns Ring , until the same they quite confound ; For their poor Wives they nothing spare ; A single Life is free from Care . Have I not herd of those well bred , who never knew no want at all , Yet after being sometime Wed , they have been brought to deadly thrall ; For want alas ! full herd they fare ; A single Life is free from Care . What pleasing stories some will tell , poor harmless Damosels to betray , Swearing they Love them passing well , but 'tis their Money more then they ; But be advis'd and shun the snare ; A single life is free from Care . Beware of e'ry huffing blade , for they are subject to deceive , As being of the Lying trade , and therefore do not them believe , Altho' they Solemnly do swear ; A single life is free from Care . For while you led a single Life , your Suitor he will kindness show , But when you once are made his Wife , alas ! you'l find it nothing so ; Instead of Love perhaps he'l sware , A single life is free from Care . Bad Husbands they abroad will Rome , and take their pleasure where they please , While their poor Wives must stay at home , there is too many such as these ; With this they patiently must bear , A single life is free from Care . For when they do return at Night , from their sweet Mirth and pleasant Joys , In which they place their chief Delight ; I mean their Ranting Roaring Boys ; The Wife with this , and more must bear , A single life is free from Care . Tho' she Intreats him to refrain , while Tears does trickle from her Face , Yet alas 'tis all in vain , for he Resolves to run his Raze , And will not in the least forbear , A single life is free from Care . I pray take heed now all that's here , before the Marriage Rites are past ; It is not for a Month or Year , but full as Long as Life shall Last ; Therefore be wise , and shun the snare ; A single life is free from Care . Young Dam'sels now of each degree , be careful of your Marriage State , And take this kind advice of me , for fear Repentance comes too Late ; Do not yourselves too soon ensnare ; A single life is free from Care . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Gall in Pye-Corner . 