The Henpeckt Cuckold ; Being a Tallow-Chandlers Sorrowful Lamentation for the Cruelty of A wanton WIFE . Tune of , Guinea wins her . Licensed according to Order . YOung Gallants that are single , be careful how you marry , lest sighs with tears you mingle , when you like me miscarry : Unto the sower-apple-tree I am bound , now farewell liberty , the grief I undergo , none but my self does know , she does the wanton play , I'm Cuckold night and day yet I must nothing say , Oh this Wife will make me weary of my life . I married her for beauty and faith I think i'm fitted ; She scorns to own her duty , am I not to be pitied ? A man of Fourscore Pounds a Year , Yet Kind Neighbours I am never the near ; for if I meet a Friend I hant a Groat to spend , but she'll in Taverns meet her Gallants , whom she'll treat , while I hant food to Eat . O this Wife will make me weary of my life . Sometime I blow the Fire with and intent to ease her , Believe me , i'm no liar , the Devil cannot please her : Perhaps something may fallen awry , Then she'll straightways make the bellows fly : or wring me by the Ears , she'll not regard my tears ; for being all alone , I dare not sighs nor groan , nor say my souls my own . O this wife will make me weary of my life . One morning she was rising , and I was waiting on her , A Passion straight she flies in for faults which I had done her , Because her Slippers I forgotten , At my head she threw the Chamber-pot so dreadful was the Blow , that blood began to flow , and I aloud did roar , but my tormentor swore , she'd give me ten times more , Oh this wife , will make me weary of my life . There came a Linen Draper , one morning to embrace her , And I began to vapour , how I did scourge and lace her : He swore I should not them molest , And with that he locked me in a chest , where close confin'd I lay , while he and she did play ; their sport they did renew , which made my heart to rue , such Queans there is but few . O this wife will make me weary of my life . There's lusty Will the Plummer , likewise his brother Francis , And brawny Dick the Drummer , see how each Villain Dances , Her Music gives them all content ; As for me alas I do lament ; the Feathers which I wear , does to the world declare that I am hornify'd ; Old Neck would not be ty'd to such a cursed bride . O this wife will make me weary of my life . My Grief I cannot smother , such is my sad disaster ; I'll never have another , shall be so much my master ; If Death would be so much my Friend , As to bring my Troubles to and end , and to take her to the Grave , 'tis all that I would have ; so soon as she is Dead , I'll mourn in Sack and Read , and never more will Wed , For this wife will make me weary of my life . London Printed for Charles Barnet . The Henpeckt Cuckold ; Being a Tallow-Chandlers Sorrowful Lamentation for the Cruelty of A wanton WIFE . Tune of , Guinea wins her . Licensed according to Order . YOung Gallants that are single , be careful how you marry , lest sighs with tears you mingle , when you like me miscarry : Unto the sower-apple-tree I am bound , now farewell liberty , the grief I undergo , none but my self does know , she does the wanton play , I'm Cuckold night and day yet I must nothing say , Oh this Wife will make me weary of my life . I married her for beauty and faith I think i'm fitted ; She scorns to own her duty , am I not to be pitied ? A man of Fourscore Pounds a Year , Yet Kind Neighbours I am never the near ; for if I meet a Friend I hant a Groat to spend , but she'll in Taverns meet her Gallants , whom she'll treat , while I hant food to Eat . O this Wife will make me weary of my life . Sometime I blow the Fire with and intent to ease her , Believe me , i'm no liar , the Devil cannot please her : Perhaps something may fallen awry , Then she'll straightways make the bellows fly : or wring me by the Ears , she'll not regard my tears ; for being all alone , I dare not sighs nor groan , nor say my souls my own . O this wife will make me weary of my life . One morning she was rising , and I was waiting on her , A Passion straight she flies in for faults which I had done her , Because her Slippers I forgotten , At my head she threw the Chamber-pot so dreadful was the Blow , that blood began to flow , and I aloud did roar , but my tormentor swore , she'd give me ten times more , Oh this wife , will make me weary of my life . There came a Linen Draper , one morning to embrace her , And I began to vapour , how I did scourge and lace her : He swore I should not them molest , And with that he locked me in a chest , where close confin'd I lay , while he and she did play ; their sport they did renew , which made my heart to rue , such Queans there is but few . O this wife will make me weary of my life . There's lusty Will the Plummer , likewise his brother Francis , And brawny Dick the Drummer , see how each Villain Dances , Her Music gives them all content ; As for me alas I do lament ; the Feathers which I wear , does to the world declare that I am hornify'd ; Old Neck would not be ty'd to such a cursed bride . O this wife will make me weary of my life . My Grief I cannot smother , such is my sad disaster ; I'll never have another , shall be so much my master ; If Death would be so much my Friend , As to bring my Troubles to and end , and to take her to the Grave , 'tis all that I would have ; so soon as she is Dead , I'll mourn in Sack and Read , and never more will Wed , For this wife will make me weary of my life . London Printed for Charles Barnet . 