C : RB . I.262 ( 012 ) THE Dreadful Voice OF FIRE , Begun at Edinburgh , the 3d of February 1700 : ----- Quis , talia fando , Temperet a Lachrymis ? ---- THE Elements , Earth , Water , Air , and Fire , Make happy Men , or sometime they conspire Apart , or in Society , to stain The varnish't honour of Man , frail and vain . Jamaica lately was a dreadful Scheme , And sad Example , of this threatening Theam ; Earth opened it's mouth , 'gainst people bad , ( Because to Heav'n . no mouths these people had ) And , weary of it's Burden , did enclose Them in it's hollow womb ; There to disclose The real darkness , which their Sins did love , And En'mity against the Powers above ; For which just Heav'n sent them a packing thence , Like Corah , Dathan , for their sad Offence . The World was drowned last by Watter's large Deluge ; Which did it's Vials soon discharge , Upon the Earth , scorch'd by the heat of Lust , Which them condemn'd , not to be burned to dust , But from a Sea of Lust , straight to be sent By Water , to the Pit of Punishment . This night , the El'ments did , in strife , contend For Umpirage , and which should most commend Their active Vigour , to the double Senses , Of Knowing Men ; when Fire ( alas ) Commences A Tragic Act ; which , in short to rehearse Shall be the Scope , of this ensuing Verse . In Rob'sens Land , 'bout Ten a Cloak at Night , Happ'ned a Fire , soon showing clear and bright ; And. in a Trice , from North-East , did o'respread , The Fabric whole , well covered with Led ; And as if pinched in narrow bounds it went , Straight for St Geils ; but soon it did Repent , And stayed at the Statue , thence did flee North watd to th' Croce , to serve it's Luxury . How did it Triumph 'ore the sturdy Oak ? And did obscure fair Cynthia , by it's smoke ? Dislodging soon the Loving Man and Wife , The Family and Children , without strife ; From Babel's Tow'r them sending to the deep Of saddest Plighted , yea some amid their sleep . Vulcan was now inexorable grow'n ; Nor Piety nor Riches , would he on ; Best Gifts of Heav'n and earth he did disdain , Threatening with blood , his Fury to maintain ; And , deaf as Adria , did neglect the Cries , Of rich and poor , all in deep Miseries ; Yea did invade the day of Holy Rest , And so the Town , with hideous flames , molest , He raged so , so domineered he , As , but himself , no other God could be , At last , by Holy Pray'rs , he was apeas'd . And then his force and cruel fury ceas'd . Hence learn you Mortals , what great madness be , To built up houses , thrice five stories high , Or to put Trust , in any earthly Thing , Save in Great GOD , of Heav'n and Earth the King ; But trust in him alone . who can defend You , from sad accidents , and dreadful End ; And now repent , and to the Lord now turn , Lest he should you , in Flames eternal , burn . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 012 ) THE Dreadful Voice OF FIRE , Begun at Edinburgh , the 3d of February 1700 : ----- Quis , talia fando , Temperet a Lachrymis ? ---- THE Elements , Earth , Water , Air , and Fire , Make happy Men , or sometime they conspire Apart , or in Society , to stain The varnish't honour of Man , frail and vain . Jamaica lately was a dreadful Scheme , And sad Example , of this threatening Theam ; Earth opened it's mouth , 'gainst people bad , ( Because to Heav'n . no mouths these people had ) And , weary of it's Burden , did enclose Them in it's hollow womb ; There to disclose The real darkness , which their Sins did love , And En'mity against the Powers above ; For which just Heav'n sent them a packing thence , Like Corah , Dathan , for their sad Offence . The World was drowned last by Watter's large Deluge ; Which did it's Vials soon discharge , Upon the Earth , scorch'd by the heat of Lust , Which them condemn'd , not to be burned to dust , But from a Sea of Lust , straight to be sent By Water , to the Pit of Punishment . This night , the El'ments did , in strife , contend For Umpirage , and which should most commend Their active Vigour , to the double Senses , Of Knowing Men ; when Fire ( alas ) Commences A Tragic Act ; which , in short to rehearse Shall be the Scope , of this ensuing Verse . In Rob'sens Land , 'bout Ten a Cloak at Night , Happ'ned a Fire , soon showing clear and bright ; And. in a Trice , from North-East , did o'respread , The Fabric whole , well covered with Led ; And as if pinched in narrow bounds it went , Straight for St Geils ; but soon it did Repent , And stayed at the Statue , thence did flee North watd to th' Croce , to serve it's Luxury . How did it Triumph 'ore the sturdy Oak ? And did obscure fair Cynthia , by it's smoke ? Dislodging soon the Loving Man and Wife , The Family and Children , without strife ; From Babel's Tow'r them sending to the deep Of saddest Plighted , yea some amid their sleep . Vulcan was now inexorable grow'n ; Nor Piety nor Riches , would he on ; Best Gifts of Heav'n and earth he did disdain , Threatening with blood , his Fury to maintain ; And , deaf as Adria , did neglect the Cries , Of rich and poor , all in deep Miseries ; Yea did invade the day of Holy Rest , And so the Town , with hideous flames , molest , He raged so , so domineered he , As , but himself , no other God could be , At last , by Holy Pray'rs , he was apeas'd . And then his force and cruel fury ceas'd . Hence learn you Mortals , what great madness be , To built up houses , thrice five stories high , Or to put Trust , in any earthly Thing , Save in Great GOD , of Heav'n and Earth the King ; But trust in him alone . who can defend You , from sad accidents , and dreadful End ; And now repent , and to the Lord now turn , Lest he should you , in Flames eternal , burn . FINIS . 