C : RB . I.262 ( 006 ) Christs Kirk on the Green , Composed ( as is supposed ) by King James V. Newly Corrected , according to the Original Copy . WAS never in Scotland herd nor seen such Dancing nor Deray , Neither on Faulkland on the Green , nor Peebles at the play ; As was of Wooers as I ween , at Christs Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , with her new Gown of Gray , Full gay that day . To Dance these Damosels them dight , these Lasses light of laits , Their Gloves were of the Raffall right , their shoes were of the Straits , Their Kirtles were of Lincoln light , well dressed with many plaits , They were so nice when Men them neigh'd , they squiel'd like any Gaits . Full loud that day Of all these Maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie ; As any Rose her rude was read , her Lure was like the Lily , But yellow , yellow was her Head , and she of Love so silly , Though all her Kin had sworn her dead , she would have none but Willie Alone that day . She scorned at Jack , and scripp'd at him , and murgeon'd him with mocks ; He would have lov'd her , she would not let him , for all his yellow locks ; He cherished her , she bade go chat him , she counted him not two cloaks , So shamefully his short Jack set him , his Legs were like two Rocks , Or Rungs that day . Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet , good Lord , how he could lance , He play'd so shrill , and sang so sweet , while Tousie took a Trance : Old Lightfoot there he could forlet , and counterfitted France : He held him like a Man discreet , and up the Morris dance He took that day . Then Stephen came stepping in with stends , no Rink might him arrest , Splayfoot did bob with many bends , for Masie he made Request . He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising was so preast , While he did boast at both the ends , for honour of the Feast , And danc'd that day . Then Robin Roy began to Revel , and Tousie to him drugged : Let be quoth Jack , and call'd him Jevel , and by the Tail him Rugged : Then Kensie Clicked to a Kevel , God wots as they two lugged , They parted there upon a Nevel , Men say their hair was rugged Between them twa . With that a Friend of his cry'd Fie , and forth and Arrow drew , He forged it so forcefully , the Bow in flenders flew , Such was the Grace of GOD , trow I , for had the Tree been true , Men said , who knew his Archery , that he had slave anew , Believe that day . A Yap Young Man that stood him niest , soon bent his Bow in ire , And Etled the Brain in at the Breast , the Bolt flew o're the Bire , And cry'd Fie , he had slave a Priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both Bow and Bag from him he kiest and fled as fast as Fire From Flint that day . And hafty Kinsman called Hary , that was and Archer keen , Tied up a Tackle without tarry , I trow the Man was taken : I wot not whither his hand did vary , or his Foe was his Friend , But he escaped by the Mights of Mary , as one that nothing mean'd , But good that day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , and soon a slave can fedder , He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a Wedder : He hit him on the wamb a wap , It bust like any bladder , He 'scaped so , such was his hap , his dowblet was of leather . full fine that day . The buss so boisterously abaist him , that he to the Earth cusht down , The other Man for dead he left him , and fled out of the Town ; The Wives came forth , and up they rest him and found life in the Lown , Then with three routs there they rais'd him , and Cur'd him out of found , Free hand that day . The Miller was a Manly Make , to meet with him it was no moves . There durst not ten some there him take , so cowed he their powes : The bushment whole about him brake , and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back ; they hoch'd him on the howes ; Behind that day Then Hutchen with a Hazel Rice , to read gan through them rummil , He muddl'd them like any M [ i ] ce , he was no betty bummil : Though he was wight he was not wise , with such Jutters to jummil , For from his thumb there flew a slice while he cry'd barlafummil , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood was read , to flee might no Man let him : He trou'd it had been for old feed , he thought and bad have at him . He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him , While he was passed out of their plead , They must be swift that got him Through speed that day , Two that were Headsmen of the Heard , they rushed on other like Rams , The other four which were Unrear'd , beatrice on with barrow Trams , And where their Gobs were Ungear'd , they god upon the Gams , While that all bloody was their beards , as they had worried Lambs , Most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each Gossip other grieved ; Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , some fled , and some relieved , Their Minstrels used quiet means , that day he wisely proved , For he came hame with unbruis'd banes , where Fighters were mischieved , Full ill that day . With Forks and Flails they lent them flaps , and flew together like Frigs , with bougers of Barns they pierc'd blue cap , and of their Bairns made Brigs , The Rare rose rudely with their Raps , then Rungs were laid on Rigs : The Wives came forth with cries and claps , see where my Liking ligs Full low that day . The black Soutter of Braith was bowden , his Wife hung at his Waist , His body was in black all browden , he girn'd like any Ghost , Her glittering Hair that was so bowden , her Love fast from him laist , That for his sake she was Unyawden , while he a mile was chaste , And more that day . When they had beir'd like baited Bulls , the Bone Fires burned like bails , Then they grew as meek as Mules , that wearied were with Mails , For these forsoughten tired Fools fell down like slaughtered Frails , Fresh Men came in and hail'd the Dools , and dang them down in dails , Bedeen that day . The Wives then gave a hideous yell , when all these Yonkiers yoked , As fierce as flags of Fire flaughts fell , fricks to the field they flocked . Then Carls with Clubs did other Quel on breast while blood out boaked ; So rudely Rang the Common Bell , that all the Steeple rocked , For dread that day . By this Tom Tailor was in his Gear , when he herd the Common Bell , He said he should make all on steer , when he came there himself , He went to fight with such a fear , while to the Ground he fell , A Wife that hit him on the Ear with a great knocking Mell , Felled him that day . The Bridegroom brought a Pint of Ale , and bade the Piper drink it , Drink it , quoth he , and it so stail , ashrew me if I think it , The Bride her Maidens stood her by , and said it was not blinked , And Bartagesie the Bride so gay , upon him fast she winked , Full soon that day . When all was done , Dick with and Ax came forth to fallen a Father , Quoth he , where are you , whoorson smaiks , right now that hurt my Brother ? His Wife bade him , go home , Gib-glaiks , and so did Meg his Mother , He turn'd and gave them both their Paiks , for he durst ding not other , But them that day FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 006 ) Christs Kirk on the Green , Composed ( as is supposed ) by King James V. Newly Corrected , according to the Original Copy . WAS never in Scotland herd nor seen such Dancing nor Deray , Neither on Faulkland on the Green , nor Peebles at the play ; As was of Wooers as I ween , at Christs Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , with her new Gown of Gray , Full gay that day . To Dance these Damosels them dight , these Lasses light of laits , Their Gloves were of the Raffall right , their shoes were of the Straits , Their Kirtles were of Lincoln light , well dressed with many plaits , They were so nice when Men them neigh'd , they squiel'd like any Gaits . Full loud that day Of all these Maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie ; As any Rose her rude was read , her Lure was like the Lily , But yellow , yellow was her Head , and she of Love so silly , Though all her Kin had sworn her dead , she would have none but Willie Alone that day . She scorned at Jack , and scripp'd at him , and murgeon'd him with mocks ; He would have lov'd her , she would not let him , for all his yellow locks ; He cherished her , she bade go chat him , she counted him not two cloaks , So shamefully his short Jack set him , his Legs were like two Rocks , Or Rungs that day . Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet , good Lord , how he could lance , He play'd so shrill , and sang so sweet , while Tousie took a Trance : Old Lightfoot there he could forlet , and counterfitted France : He held him like a Man discreet , and up the Morris dance He took that day . Then Stephen came stepping in with stends , no Rink might him arrest , Splayfoot did bob with many bends , for Masie he made Request . He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising was so preast , While he did boast at both the ends , for honour of the Feast , And danc'd that day . Then Robin Roy began to Revel , and Tousie to him drugged : Let be quoth Jack , and call'd him Jevel , and by the Tail him Rugged : Then Kensie Clicked to a Kevel , God wots as they two lugged , They parted there upon a Nevel , Men say their hair was rugged Between them twa . With that a Friend of his cry'd Fie , and forth and Arrow drew , He forged it so forcefully , the Bow in flenders flew , Such was the Grace of GOD , trow I , for had the Tree been true , Men said , who knew his Archery , that he had slave anew , Believe that day . A Yap Young Man that stood him niest , soon bent his Bow in ire , And Etled the Brain in at the Breast , the Bolt flew o're the Bire , And cry'd Fie , he had slave a Priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both Bow and Bag from him he kiest and fled as fast as Fire From Flint that day . And hafty Kinsman called Hary , that was and Archer keen , Tied up a Tackle without tarry , I trow the Man was taken : I wot not whither his hand did vary , or his Foe was his Friend , But he escaped by the Mights of Mary , as one that nothing mean'd , But good that day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , and soon a slave can fedder , He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a Wedder : He hit him on the wamb a wap , It bust like any bladder , He 'scaped so , such was his hap , his dowblet was of leather . full fine that day . The buss so boisterously abaist him , that he to the Earth cusht down , The other Man for dead he left him , and fled out of the Town ; The Wives came forth , and up they rest him and found life in the Lown , Then with three routs there they rais'd him , and Cur'd him out of found , Free hand that day . The Miller was a Manly Make , to meet with him it was no moves . There durst not ten some there him take , so cowed he their powes : The bushment whole about him brake , and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back ; they hoch'd him on the howes ; Behind that day Then Hutchen with a Hazel Rice , to read gan through them rummil , He muddl'd them like any M [ i ] ce , he was no betty bummil : Though he was wight he was not wise , with such Jutters to jummil , For from his thumb there flew a slice while he cry'd barlafummil , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood was read , to flee might no Man let him : He trou'd it had been for old feed , he thought and bad have at him . He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him , While he was passed out of their plead , They must be swift that got him Through speed that day , Two that were Headsmen of the Heard , they rushed on other like Rams , The other four which were Unrear'd , beatrice on with barrow Trams , And where their Gobs were Ungear'd , they god upon the Gams , While that all bloody was their beards , as they had worried Lambs , Most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each Gossip other grieved ; Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , some fled , and some relieved , Their Minstrels used quiet means , that day he wisely proved , For he came hame with unbruis'd banes , where Fighters were mischieved , Full ill that day . With Forks and Flails they lent them flaps , and flew together like Frigs , with bougers of Barns they pierc'd blue cap , and of their Bairns made Brigs , The Rare rose rudely with their Raps , then Rungs were laid on Rigs : The Wives came forth with cries and claps , see where my Liking ligs Full low that day . The black Soutter of Braith was bowden , his Wife hung at his Waist , His body was in black all browden , he girn'd like any Ghost , Her glittering Hair that was so bowden , her Love fast from him laist , That for his sake she was Unyawden , while he a mile was chaste , And more that day . When they had beir'd like baited Bulls , the Bone Fires burned like bails , Then they grew as meek as Mules , that wearied were with Mails , For these forsoughten tired Fools fell down like slaughtered Frails , Fresh Men came in and hail'd the Dools , and dang them down in dails , Bedeen that day . The Wives then gave a hideous yell , when all these Yonkiers yoked , As fierce as flags of Fire flaughts fell , fricks to the field they flocked . Then Carls with Clubs did other Quel on breast while blood out boaked ; So rudely Rang the Common Bell , that all the Steeple rocked , For dread that day . By this Tom Tailor was in his Gear , when he herd the Common Bell , He said he should make all on steer , when he came there himself , He went to fight with such a fear , while to the Ground he fell , A Wife that hit him on the Ear with a great knocking Mell , Felled him that day . The Bridegroom brought a Pint of Ale , and bade the Piper drink it , Drink it , quoth he , and it so stail , ashrew me if I think it , The Bride her Maidens stood her by , and said it was not blinked , And Bartagesie the Bride so gay , upon him fast she winked , Full soon that day . When all was done , Dick with and Ax came forth to fallen a Father , Quoth he , where are you , whoorson smaiks , right now that hurt my Brother ? His Wife bade him , go home , Gib-glaiks , and so did Meg his Mother , He turn'd and gave them both their Paiks , for he durst ding not other , But them that day FINIS . 