And Excellent New Song , Call'd , The Father Outwitted , OR , The Faithful Lovers of Wapping . Tune of , On the fourteenth of August , etc Licensed according to Order . YOung Lovers pray listen a while and you'l find that crosses attend often to Lovers kind , Although if by crosses a Lover should rue Yet happy's the Lover that's constant and true . As here for example true Lovers you see , And yet these true Lovers were crossed by the Sea , The young Man a Sailor was , who did impart , His true love to Nancy with a constant heart . This Nancy in Farmers-Street , Wapping , did dwell , And the Sailor liv'd near her , who lov'd her full well , He made her choice presents of several things And among all the rest was a fine Diamond ring . By his civil carriage he wone her kind heart , And she promised nothing but Death should them part , To confirm the bargain likewise I am told Between them they broke too a piece of fine Gold . Then kissing they promised e're to be true He saying , I love none , dear Nancy , but you , You know i'm ingag'd for to go one Voyage more , Till Death then i'le live with my dear on the shore . O , dearest she cry'd , I do wish you success , And a good return with health and happiness , Then kissing , he parted , on Shipboard straight went , Being pleas'd in his true Love to his hearts content . The Sailor was scarce two Months space gone away , But the father to Nancy in Anger did say , I like not the contract with the Sailor made Therefore thou shalt Marry one that has a good Trade . O never tell me so , my dear Father she cry'd , I have made a Vow that I will be his B [ r ] idem , Its no matter for that to his Daughter he said Thou shalt have a Husband that has a good Trade . Well Sir if I must , your will shall be obey'd . But this , to herself , was to please him , she said , There is a young Man that at Debtford does dwell He's a Shipwright by Trade and does love me full well . If you please Sir the next time he comes unto me , This young Man shall wait on you if you are free , Well let him and if he is what I am told I'le give him 2 hundred Pounds down in good Gold . The Daughter straight went to a Woman she knew , And said you must act a Man's part and be true , For to a young Sailor I vow'd for my life , I'd marry him and be a loving kind Wife . But since my love is gone a Voyage to the Sea , I must have a tradesman my Father tells me , Now you must the part of a Man act full well And say you're a Shipwright at Debtford does dwell . So seemingly Court me till he gives consent , then we'll marry to mine my Father's content , 'twill please him and I shall a Fortune obtain then i'le wed my true Love when he's off of the main . then Nancy's Acquaintance did put on man's clothes , As Hat , Wig and Waistcoat , Coat , Breeches & Hose , then courted young Nancy , like a Lad brisk & gay , And her Father consented and never said nay . But more to encourage the Match to go on , two hunder'd good Guineas of gold he'd lay down , the day was appointed and this Female pair Were Wedded and Bedded as Marry'd folks are . the Father he wish'd them much Joy when 'twas done , Paid the Gold and did hope for to have a Grandson , thus for 3 Months they Bedded & boarded with him , then the Sailor returned to England again . No sooner on shore but he went for to see his Nancy whom he had promis'd to Marry , When her father he see him , he cry'd Sir forbear for my Daughter is marry'd , so come no more here the Sailor with hand on his breast did reply for your perjur'd Daughter alas I must die , then pull [ ' ] worser out a Pistol to his breast put the same But Nancy came crying , I am not too blame . Dear father , your pardon I ask on my knee , 'tis a Woman you thought was a Man wedded me , But this is the Man that I vow'd for to have , O give your consent or send me to the Grave . the father with tears in his Eyes to her said , I give my consent that the Sailor you wed , And according to Vows which they made for their life , he proves a kind husband , she proves a kind wife . LONDON : Printed by and for A. M. and sold by E. Brookesby , in Pye-Corner . And Excellent New Song , Call'd , The Father Outwitted , OR , The Faithful Lovers of Wapping . Tune of , On the fourteenth of August , etc Licensed according to Order . YOung Lovers pray listen a while and you'l find that crosses attend often to Lovers kind , Although if by crosses a Lover should rue Yet happy's the Lover that's constant and true . As here for example true Lovers you see , And yet these true Lovers were crossed by the Sea , The young Man a Sailor was , who did impart , His true love to Nancy with a constant heart . This Nancy in Farmers-Street , Wapping , did dwell , And the Sailor liv'd near her , who lov'd her full well , He made her choice presents of several things And among all the rest was a fine Diamond ring . By his civil carriage he wone her kind heart , And she promised nothing but Death should them part , To confirm the bargain likewise I am told Between them they broke too a piece of fine Gold . Then kissing they promised e're to be true He saying , I love none , dear Nancy , but you , You know i'm ingag'd for to go one Voyage more , Till Death then i'le live with my dear on the shore . O , dearest she cry'd , I do wish you success , And a good return with health and happiness , Then kissing , he parted , on Shipboard straight went , Being pleas'd in his true Love to his hearts content . The Sailor was scarce two Months space gone away , But the father to Nancy in Anger did say , I like not the contract with the Sailor made Therefore thou shalt Marry one that has a good Trade . O never tell me so , my dear Father she cry'd , I have made a Vow that I will be his B [ r ] idem , Its no matter for that to his Daughter he said Thou shalt have a Husband that has a good Trade . Well Sir if I must , your will shall be obey'd . But this , to herself , was to please him , she said , There is a young Man that at Debtford does dwell He's a Shipwright by Trade and does love me full well . If you please Sir the next time he comes unto me , This young Man shall wait on you if you are free , Well let him and if he is what I am told I'le give him 2 hundred Pounds down in good Gold . The Daughter straight went to a Woman she knew , And said you must act a Man's part and be true , For to a young Sailor I vow'd for my life , I'd marry him and be a loving kind Wife . But since my love is gone a Voyage to the Sea , I must have a tradesman my Father tells me , Now you must the part of a Man act full well And say you're a Shipwright at Debtford does dwell . So seemingly Court me till he gives consent , then we'll marry to mine my Father's content , 'twill please him and I shall a Fortune obtain then i'le wed my true Love when he's off of the main . then Nancy's Acquaintance did put on man's clothes , As Hat , Wig and Waistcoat , Coat , Breeches & Hose , then courted young Nancy , like a Lad brisk & gay , And her Father consented and never said nay . But more to encourage the Match to go on , two hunder'd good Guineas of gold he'd lay down , the day was appointed and this Female pair Were Wedded and Bedded as Marry'd folks are . the Father he wish'd them much Joy when 'twas done , Paid the Gold and did hope for to have a Grandson , thus for 3 Months they Bedded & boarded with him , then the Sailor returned to England again . No sooner on shore but he went for to see his Nancy whom he had promis'd to Marry , When her father he see him , he cry'd Sir forbear for my Daughter is marry'd , so come no more here the Sailor with hand on his breast did reply for your perjur'd Daughter alas I must die , then pull [ ' ] worser out a Pistol to his breast put the same But Nancy came crying , I am not too blame . Dear father , your pardon I ask on my knee , 'tis a Woman you thought was a Man wedded me , But this is the Man that I vow'd for to have , O give your consent or send me to the Grave . the father with tears in his Eyes to her said , I give my consent that the Sailor you wed , And according to Vows which they made for their life , he proves a kind husband , she proves a kind wife . LONDON : Printed by and for A. M. and sold by E. Brookesby , in Pye-Corner . 