C : RB . I.262 ( 014 ) The BALLAD of the CLOAK OR The CLOAKS Knavery . COme buy my new Ballet , I hav't in my wallet ; But it will not ( I fear ) please every pallet . Then mark what ensu'th , I swear by my Youth , That every line in my Ballet is truth . A Ballet of wit , a Ballet of worth , t'Is newly Printed and newly come forth : It Was made of a Cloak , that fell out with a Gown , That Cramped all the Kingdom and Crippl'd the Crown . I'le tell you in Brief A story of Grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in chief : It threw down our players , Imprison'd Lord May'rs , In one day it voted down Prelates and pray'rs , It made people perjur'd in point of obedience , Its Covenant did cut off the Oath of allegiance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That Cramped all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown . It was a Black-cloack ( In good time be it spoke ) That kill'd many thousands , but never struck stroke With hatchet and Rope , The forlorn Hope Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope , It set all Sects in the Island to work ; And rather then fail'd , would have brought in the Turk . Then let us endeavour , etc It seis'd on the tower Guns Those fierce demigorgons ; It brought down the Bagpipes and pull'd down the Organs ; The pulpits did smoke , The Churches did Choke , And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak ; It brought in lay Elders could not write nor read , It set public faith up , and pull'd down the Creed . Then let us endeavour , etc This pious Impostor Such fury did foster , It left us no penny , nor no Pater noster ; It threw to the ground Ten Command'ments down , And set up twice twenty times ten of its own ; It Routed the King , and villains elected , To plunder all whom it thought disaffected . Then let us endeavour , etc To Blind peoples eyes , This Cloak was so wise , It took off Ship money but set up Excise ; Men brought in their plate For reasons of State , And gav't to Thom Trumpeter and to his mate ; In Pamphlets it write many specious Epistles To Cozen poor wenches of Bodkins and whistles . Then let us endeavour , etc In pulpits it moved , And was much approved For crying out fight the Lords Battles beloved ; It Bobetail'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down , It trod on the Mitre to reach at the Crown ; And into the field ane army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shoot at the King . Then let us endeavour , etc It raised up States , Whose Politic pates Do now keep their Quarter on the City Gates ; To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother It gave a Commission to kill one ane other ; It took up Men's Houses at very low Rates , And plundr'd our goods to secure our Estates . Then let us endeavour , etc This Cloak did proceed To a damnable deed , It made the best Mirror of Majesty Bleed ; Though Cloak did it not , Yet he set it on foot By rallying and Calling his Journeymen to' But never had come such a bloody disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn sword at his Master . Then let us endeavour , etc Though some of them went hence By sorrowful sentence , This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to repentance ; But he and his Men , Twenty thousand times ten , Are plotting to do their tricks ov'r again : But let this proud Cloak to authority stoop ; Or Cockburne will get him a button and loupe , Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down That basely did sever the head from the Crown . Lett's pray that the King , And his only Brother , May be glorious , and helpful one to ane other , Both firmly united , And lovingly such , That , the sacred succession none may darr touch . As Charles three Crowns enjoys in possession , James title is just to them all in reversion . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down That Offers to Quarrel his right to the Crown . Lett's pray , that the King , And our Parliament . In Sacred and secular things may consent , So righteously firm , And Religeously free , That Papists and Phan's suppressed may be . And as ther's one God that does over-reigne us , One faith , one Worship , one Church may contain us . Then peace , truth and plenty great Brittain shall Crown , And schism & sedition with their Authors shall drwn . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 014 ) The BALLAD of the CLOAK OR The CLOAKS Knavery . COme buy my new Ballet , I hav't in my wallet ; But it will not ( I fear ) please every pallet . Then mark what ensu'th , I swear by my Youth , That every line in my Ballet is truth . A Ballet of wit , a Ballet of worth , t'Is newly Printed and newly come forth : It Was made of a Cloak , that fell out with a Gown , That Cramped all the Kingdom and Crippl'd the Crown . I'le tell you in Brief A story of Grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in chief : It threw down our players , Imprison'd Lord May'rs , In one day it voted down Prelates and pray'rs , It made people perjur'd in point of obedience , Its Covenant did cut off the Oath of allegiance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That Cramped all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown . It was a Black-cloack ( In good time be it spoke ) That kill'd many thousands , but never struck stroke With hatchet and Rope , The forlorn Hope Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope , It set all Sects in the Island to work ; And rather then fail'd , would have brought in the Turk . Then let us endeavour , etc It seis'd on the tower Guns Those fierce demigorgons ; It brought down the Bagpipes and pull'd down the Organs ; The pulpits did smoke , The Churches did Choke , And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak ; It brought in lay Elders could not write nor read , It set public faith up , and pull'd down the Creed . Then let us endeavour , etc This pious Impostor Such fury did foster , It left us no penny , nor no Pater noster ; It threw to the ground Ten Command'ments down , And set up twice twenty times ten of its own ; It Routed the King , and villains elected , To plunder all whom it thought disaffected . Then let us endeavour , etc To Blind peoples eyes , This Cloak was so wise , It took off Ship money but set up Excise ; Men brought in their plate For reasons of State , And gav't to Thom Trumpeter and to his mate ; In Pamphlets it write many specious Epistles To Cozen poor wenches of Bodkins and whistles . Then let us endeavour , etc In pulpits it moved , And was much approved For crying out fight the Lords Battles beloved ; It Bobetail'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down , It trod on the Mitre to reach at the Crown ; And into the field ane army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shoot at the King . Then let us endeavour , etc It raised up States , Whose Politic pates Do now keep their Quarter on the City Gates ; To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother It gave a Commission to kill one ane other ; It took up Men's Houses at very low Rates , And plundr'd our goods to secure our Estates . Then let us endeavour , etc This Cloak did proceed To a damnable deed , It made the best Mirror of Majesty Bleed ; Though Cloak did it not , Yet he set it on foot By rallying and Calling his Journeymen to' But never had come such a bloody disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn sword at his Master . Then let us endeavour , etc Though some of them went hence By sorrowful sentence , This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to repentance ; But he and his Men , Twenty thousand times ten , Are plotting to do their tricks ov'r again : But let this proud Cloak to authority stoop ; Or Cockburne will get him a button and loupe , Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down That basely did sever the head from the Crown . Lett's pray that the King , And his only Brother , May be glorious , and helpful one to ane other , Both firmly united , And lovingly such , That , the sacred succession none may darr touch . As Charles three Crowns enjoys in possession , James title is just to them all in reversion . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down That Offers to Quarrel his right to the Crown . Lett's pray , that the King , And our Parliament . In Sacred and secular things may consent , So righteously firm , And Religeously free , That Papists and Phan's suppressed may be . And as ther's one God that does over-reigne us , One faith , one Worship , one Church may contain us . Then peace , truth and plenty great Brittain shall Crown , And schism & sedition with their Authors shall drwn . FINIS . 