C : RB . I.262 ( 009 ) THE CITY of LONDONS NEW LETANY . To the Tune of the Black-Smith . FRom Rumps that do Rule against Customs and Laws , From a farthel of fancies still'd a Good Old Cause , From Wives that have nails which are sharper then Claws . Good Jove deliver us all . From men who seek right where it's not to be had , From such who seek good where all things are bad , From wise men far worse then fools or men mad . Good Jove etc From Soldiers that wrack the poor out or doors , From Rumps that stuff Coffers to pleasure their Whores , Which they secretly squeeze from Commonwealth scores . Good Jove etc From Ingrossers of wealth to lie by their walls , Which they force from poor women for keeping of Stalls , And choose for to rise by other men's fallen . Good Jove etc From Knaves that do pocket good Subject's Estates , From such that give Plasters when they've broken our Pates , From Rumps that do Vote down our Posts , Chains and Gates . Good Jove etc From Statesmen that Court the thing that they hate , From woeful Repentance that comes too late , From those that delight in making of bate . Good Jove etc From Soldiers who mutiny for want of their pay , And at last go sneaking without it away , Crying they hope for a far better day . Good Jove etc From one who brought forces to fill up the Town , That when Rumps were at highest he might pull them down , Because he himself does aim at the Crown . Good Jove deliver us all . From Commanders who never drew sword but in Schools , Which were button-pointed to favour such fools , Who in vapouring words do threaten Joint stools . Good Jove etc Who to lose drop of blood would faint at the heart , And in dread of a Gun are scar'd at a Fart , If one blows but his Nose it makes them to start . Good Jove etc Who think every brush of wind and Alarm , To which they make ready and cry out Arm , Arm , Yet secretly pray that there may be no harm . Good Jove deliver us all . From a City that lies on its back to be Gelded , From those that wont stir till famine be felt , From the Pike , the Gun , the Sword and the Belt , Good Jove etc , From a simple Mayor not fit to Rule Hogs , From such as obey him like Spannel Dogs , From Summer's heat and from Winter's Fogs . Good Jove etc From County Petitions and Declarations , That will not be drawn one Inch from their stations , But triumph in words for old Reformations . Good Jove etc From Apprentices valour and threats from the City , Which would Act great wonders , yet forbear in pity , From fools that conceit themselves very witty . Good Jove etc From Oaths and Engagements imposed by force , And broken as fast without any remorse , Alleging them Ceremonies of course . Good Jove etc From those whose damn'd actions with Treason are crowned From such that would Law and Gospel confound , And Vow that the City they'l burn to the ground . Good Jove etc From people that murmur with Swords in their hand , And keep and entreating when they may command , Yet had rather lose all then Knaves to withstand . Good Jove etc , From Rumps that the Kingdoms Revenue have spent , From and everlasting Parliament , And from and Army full of discontent . Good Jove etc From such who do courtisies with a long pause , From those who condemn before they hear the cause , And from Trades which are worse then picking of straws . Good Jove etc From a Foes mercy when one lies in his power , From a Friends anger in and ill hour , And from a fool that's Lieutenant of the Tower . Good Jove etc From men who make use of their Friends in the neck , And when the brunt's over against them do kick , The thoughts of such Varlets does make my Muse sick . Good night good people all . Printed for L : C. in the year 1659. C : RB . I.262 ( 009 ) THE CITY of LONDONS NEW LETANY . To the Tune of the Black-Smith . FRom Rumps that do Rule against Customs and Laws , From a farthel of fancies still'd a Good Old Cause , From Wives that have nails which are sharper then Claws . Good Jove deliver us all . From men who seek right where it's not to be had , From such who seek good where all things are bad , From wise men far worse then fools or men mad . Good Jove etc From Soldiers that wrack the poor out or doors , From Rumps that stuff Coffers to pleasure their Whores , Which they secretly squeeze from Commonwealth scores . Good Jove etc From Ingrossers of wealth to lie by their walls , Which they force from poor women for keeping of Stalls , And choose for to rise by other men's fallen . Good Jove etc From Knaves that do pocket good Subject's Estates , From such that give Plasters when they've broken our Pates , From Rumps that do Vote down our Posts , Chains and Gates . Good Jove etc From Statesmen that Court the thing that they hate , From woeful Repentance that comes too late , From those that delight in making of bate . Good Jove etc From Soldiers who mutiny for want of their pay , And at last go sneaking without it away , Crying they hope for a far better day . Good Jove etc From one who brought forces to fill up the Town , That when Rumps were at highest he might pull them down , Because he himself does aim at the Crown . Good Jove deliver us all . From Commanders who never drew sword but in Schools , Which were button-pointed to favour such fools , Who in vapouring words do threaten Joint stools . Good Jove etc Who to lose drop of blood would faint at the heart , And in dread of a Gun are scar'd at a Fart , If one blows but his Nose it makes them to start . Good Jove etc Who think every brush of wind and Alarm , To which they make ready and cry out Arm , Arm , Yet secretly pray that there may be no harm . Good Jove deliver us all . From a City that lies on its back to be Gelded , From those that wont stir till famine be felt , From the Pike , the Gun , the Sword and the Belt , Good Jove etc , From a simple Mayor not fit to Rule Hogs , From such as obey him like Spannel Dogs , From Summer's heat and from Winter's Fogs . Good Jove etc From County Petitions and Declarations , That will not be drawn one Inch from their stations , But triumph in words for old Reformations . Good Jove etc From Apprentices valour and threats from the City , Which would Act great wonders , yet forbear in pity , From fools that conceit themselves very witty . Good Jove etc From Oaths and Engagements imposed by force , And broken as fast without any remorse , Alleging them Ceremonies of course . Good Jove etc From those whose damn'd actions with Treason are crowned From such that would Law and Gospel confound , And Vow that the City they'l burn to the ground . Good Jove etc From people that murmur with Swords in their hand , And keep and entreating when they may command , Yet had rather lose all then Knaves to withstand . Good Jove etc , From Rumps that the Kingdoms Revenue have spent , From and everlasting Parliament , And from and Army full of discontent . Good Jove etc From such who do courtisies with a long pause , From those who condemn before they hear the cause , And from Trades which are worse then picking of straws . Good Jove etc From a Foes mercy when one lies in his power , From a Friends anger in and ill hour , And from a fool that's Lieutenant of the Tower . Good Jove etc From men who make use of their Friends in the neck , And when the brunt's over against them do kick , The thoughts of such Varlets does make my Muse sick . Good night good people all . Printed for L : C. in the year 1659. 