C : RB . I.262 ( 021 ) LIFE and DEATH OF THE Piper of Kilbarchan OR , The Epitaph of Habbie Simpson , He made his Cheeks as read as Crimson , Who on his Dron boar bonny Flags , And babed when he blew the Bags , KIlbarchan now my say alas ! For she hath lost her game & grace Both Trixie and the Maiden-trace But what remeed ? For no Man can supply his place , Hab Simphon's dead , Now who shall play the day it daws Or hunt's up when the Cock he craws Or who can for our Kirk Town Cause , stand us in stead ? On Bagpipes now no body blaws , Sen Habbie's dead , Or who shall cause our Shearers shear Who will bend up the Brags of Weir ? Bring in the Bells' or good play Meir , In time of need , Hab Simpson could what needs you spear But now he's dead . So kindly to his Neighbour neist , At Beltan and Saint Barchans Feast He blew and then held up his Breast , as he were weid , But now we need not him arrest ? For Habbie's dead , At Fairs he play'd before the Spearmen All gaily graithed in their Geer-men , Steel Bonners , Jacts and Swords so cleat then Like any Bead . Now who will play before such Weirmen Sen Habbie's dead , At Clark plays when he wont to come His Pipe play'd trimly to the Drum : Like Bikes of bees he gart it bum And turn his Reed : Now all our Pipers my sing dum Sen Habbie's dead , And at Horseraces many a day , Before the Black , the Brown and Grey He gart his Pipe when he did play , Both Skirl and Scried : Now all such pastime's quite away Sen Habbie's dead , He counted was a wall'd wight Man , And fiercely at Football he ran ; At every Game the gree he won , For pith and speed The like of Habbie was not then , But now he's dead , And then beside his valiant Acts , At Bridles he won many placks . He babbed ay behind Folks backs , And shook his Head , Now we want many merry Cracks Sen Habbie's dead . He was convoyer of the bride , With Kittock hanging at his side , About the Kirk he thought a pride the Ring to Led But now she may go but a Guide For Habbie's dead . So well's he keeped his Decorum . And all the steps of Whip-meg morum , He slew a man and wae's me for him And bore the feed . But yet the man won Hame before him and was not dead , Ay when he play'd the Lasses leugh , To see him toothless , old and teuch He won his Pipes beside Barcleugh withouten dread , Which after won him Gear enough But now he's dead . Alas for him my heart is fare , For of his Springs I god a Share , At every play , Raze , Feast and Fair , But Guile or Greed We need not look for piping more , Sen Habbie's dead , FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 021 ) LIFE and DEATH OF THE Piper of Kilbarchan OR , The Epitaph of Habbie Simpson , He made his Cheeks as read as Crimson , Who on his Dron boar bonny Flags , And babed when he blew the Bags , KIlbarchan now my say alas ! For she hath lost her game & grace Both Trixie and the Maiden-trace But what remeed ? For no Man can supply his place , Hab Simphon's dead , Now who shall play the day it daws Or hunt's up when the Cock he craws Or who can for our Kirk Town Cause , stand us in stead ? On Bagpipes now no body blaws , Sen Habbie's dead , Or who shall cause our Shearers shear Who will bend up the Brags of Weir ? Bring in the Bells' or good play Meir , In time of need , Hab Simpson could what needs you spear But now he's dead . So kindly to his Neighbour neist , At Beltan and Saint Barchans Feast He blew and then held up his Breast , as he were weid , But now we need not him arrest ? For Habbie's dead , At Fairs he play'd before the Spearmen All gaily graithed in their Geer-men , Steel Bonners , Jacts and Swords so cleat then Like any Bead . Now who will play before such Weirmen Sen Habbie's dead , At Clark plays when he wont to come His Pipe play'd trimly to the Drum : Like Bikes of bees he gart it bum And turn his Reed : Now all our Pipers my sing dum Sen Habbie's dead , And at Horseraces many a day , Before the Black , the Brown and Grey He gart his Pipe when he did play , Both Skirl and Scried : Now all such pastime's quite away Sen Habbie's dead , He counted was a wall'd wight Man , And fiercely at Football he ran ; At every Game the gree he won , For pith and speed The like of Habbie was not then , But now he's dead , And then beside his valiant Acts , At Bridles he won many placks . He babbed ay behind Folks backs , And shook his Head , Now we want many merry Cracks Sen Habbie's dead . He was convoyer of the bride , With Kittock hanging at his side , About the Kirk he thought a pride the Ring to Led But now she may go but a Guide For Habbie's dead . So well's he keeped his Decorum . And all the steps of Whip-meg morum , He slew a man and wae's me for him And bore the feed . But yet the man won Hame before him and was not dead , Ay when he play'd the Lasses leugh , To see him toothless , old and teuch He won his Pipes beside Barcleugh withouten dread , Which after won him Gear enough But now he's dead . Alas for him my heart is fare , For of his Springs I god a Share , At every play , Raze , Feast and Fair , But Guile or Greed We need not look for piping more , Sen Habbie's dead , FINIS 