C : RB . I.262 ( 022 ) The young DAMOSELS COMPLAIN [ TO ] For being slighted by a Youngman in a Palmer's Weed . To the Tune of thee , Gaberluingie Man. 1. THe Carl came hirpling ov'r a tree With many fair fleetching good days & good deens to me , Saying good wife , for your Courtesy Will you lodge a silly poor man ? 2. The night was rainy and he was all wet , And down before the fire he sat , He flung his Meal-pock off his back And he began and sang . 3. And Oh ( quoth he ) give I were as free , As first , when I came to this Country ; Then blithe and merry would I be , And I would never think lang , O! 4. O then ( quoth she ) give I were as white , As ever the snow lay on the dike ! Then would I dress me Ladylike , And with thee , I would gang . 5. Then ( quoth he ) give thou wertenberg as black , As ever the Crown of thy Father's hat , Give thou would lie down by my back , And with me thou should gang . 6. These two together made a plot , To rise a little before the Cock ; And so cunningly they shut the lock , And to the fields they'r gone . 7. Be times in the morning the good wife she rose , And laisily put on here Clothes ; And to the Servant Lass she goes : Where lies this poor old Man. 8. She did gang , where the poor man lay ; And the Strae was cold and he was away , She clapped here hands , and cry'd wallawae : For some of her gear his gone . 9. Some ran to Coffers , and some to Chests , But there was nothing there , which she had miss She clapped her hands and cry'd thanks be blessed , we met with a leill poor man . I0 . But who can ease me of my pain To bring these Traitors back again : For he's be burned , and she's be slain , That woeful Gaberlungie man . 11. Some rode on Horses , and some on foot , The wife was so sorry , she ran out of her wit , But she was twice as far out of the gate Even with that Gaberluingie man . 12. Her Reply . Mother she says , I do you exhort , If any such Beggars come athort , Give them a little of your support , And let them not stay too long O! 13. For if they stay but over a night Sure all things then will not rule righ For I have got such ane a slight , Even with this Gaberlungie man . 14. Yet will I fell both Rock and Reel , And so will I my Spinning-wheel , And I will buy ane Staff of Steel , And with him I will gang , O! 15. His Reply . Fair maid , ( he says ) thou art too young , Thou hast not learned the Beggars tongue [ e ] To follow me from Town to Town , And bear my Gaberluingie , O! 16. Her Reply . I will cruick my leg and bow my knee And draw a black clout over mine eye , And some time , creeple , they will call m [ e ] And with thee I will gang , O! 17. If my Mother wist , that I were with you So ill-fav'rdly . she would cruick , her more [ w ] And another poor man she would never trow For such a Gaberluingie , O! 18. His Reply . Fair maid , if thou gang , thou shalt no [ ? ] And I's lay thee every night by my side And I's dress thee as ever was any Bride : For I's dress thee as I can , O! 19. Her Reply . With Calk and Keel I shall win my bred , And with Spinnels and Thorles , give you sta [ worser ] And that's a Genty Trade Indeed And I'le bear thy Gaberluingie man . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 022 ) The young DAMOSELS COMPLAIN [ TO ] For being slighted by a Youngman in a Palmer's Weed . To the Tune of thee , Gaberluingie Man. 1. THe Carl came hirpling ov'r a tree With many fair fleetching good days & good deens to me , Saying good wife , for your Courtesy Will you lodge a silly poor man ? 2. The night was rainy and he was all wet , And down before the fire he sat , He flung his Meal-pock off his back And he began and sang . 3. And Oh ( quoth he ) give I were as free , As first , when I came to this Country ; Then blithe and merry would I be , And I would never think lang , O! 4. O then ( quoth she ) give I were as white , As ever the snow lay on the dike ! Then would I dress me Ladylike , And with thee , I would gang . 5. Then ( quoth he ) give thou wertenberg as black , As ever the Crown of thy Father's hat , Give thou would lie down by my back , And with me thou should gang . 6. These two together made a plot , To rise a little before the Cock ; And so cunningly they shut the lock , And to the fields they'r gone . 7. Be times in the morning the good wife she rose , And laisily put on here Clothes ; And to the Servant Lass she goes : Where lies this poor old Man. 8. She did gang , where the poor man lay ; And the Strae was cold and he was away , She clapped here hands , and cry'd wallawae : For some of her gear his gone . 9. Some ran to Coffers , and some to Chests , But there was nothing there , which she had miss She clapped her hands and cry'd thanks be blessed , we met with a leill poor man . I0 . But who can ease me of my pain To bring these Traitors back again : For he's be burned , and she's be slain , That woeful Gaberlungie man . 11. Some rode on Horses , and some on foot , The wife was so sorry , she ran out of her wit , But she was twice as far out of the gate Even with that Gaberluingie man . 12. Her Reply . Mother she says , I do you exhort , If any such Beggars come athort , Give them a little of your support , And let them not stay too long O! 13. For if they stay but over a night Sure all things then will not rule righ For I have got such ane a slight , Even with this Gaberlungie man . 14. Yet will I fell both Rock and Reel , And so will I my Spinning-wheel , And I will buy ane Staff of Steel , And with him I will gang , O! 15. His Reply . Fair maid , ( he says ) thou art too young , Thou hast not learned the Beggars tongue [ e ] To follow me from Town to Town , And bear my Gaberluingie , O! 16. Her Reply . I will cruick my leg and bow my knee And draw a black clout over mine eye , And some time , creeple , they will call m [ e ] And with thee I will gang , O! 17. If my Mother wist , that I were with you So ill-fav'rdly . she would cruick , her more [ w ] And another poor man she would never trow For such a Gaberluingie , O! 18. His Reply . Fair maid , if thou gang , thou shalt no [ ? ] And I's lay thee every night by my side And I's dress thee as ever was any Bride : For I's dress thee as I can , O! 19. Her Reply . With Calk and Keel I shall win my bred , And with Spinnels and Thorles , give you sta [ worser ] And that's a Genty Trade Indeed And I'le bear thy Gaberluingie man . FINIS . 