C : RB . I.262 ( 019 ) The new way of the bonny High land Laddie , etc To it's own Proper Tune , etc I Crossed Forth , I Crossed Tay , I left Dundee , and Edinborrow , I saw nothing there was worth my stay , and so I bade them all Good-morrow . Omy bonny bonny highland laddie , Omy bonny bonny highland laddie , When I'm sick and like to die , Thou'lt row me in thy highland pladie . For on the Cairna'mount I spy'd , in careless Dress a Highland Laddie , Who briskly said , were't thou my Bride , I'de row thee in my Highland Pladdie . O my bonny bonny , etc No Butter-Box he seem'd to be , no English-Fop , nor Lowland Laddie , But by his mein he was well known , to be some Genty Highland Laddie , Oh my bonny bonny , etc His Quiver hang down by his Thigh , his Mein did show his Bow was ready , A thousand Darts flew from his Eye , and all fell down before his Lady . O my bonny bonny , etc It's Silken Rooms and Pearled Beds , and laced Shoes fit for a Lady ; But he can do't as wantonly , in Highland Trews and a belted Plaidie Oh my bonny bonny , etc I will have no Commander Man , Captain , Col'nel , nor a Caddie , If all my Friends had sworn and said , I'le have none but a Highland Laddie . O my bonny bonny , etc But when we came to Stirling Town , he promis'd to make me a Lady , But all the Tochar that I god , he row'd me in his Highland Plaidie . O my bonny bonny highland Laddie , Oh my bonny bonny highland Laddie , When I am sick and like to die , he'l row me in his Highland Plaidie . FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 019 ) The new way of the bonny High land Laddie , etc To it's own Proper Tune , etc I Crossed Forth , I Crossed Tay , I left Dundee , and Edinborrow , I saw nothing there was worth my stay , and so I bade them all Good-morrow . Omy bonny bonny highland laddie , Omy bonny bonny highland laddie , When I'm sick and like to die , Thou'lt row me in thy highland pladie . For on the Cairna'mount I spy'd , in careless Dress a Highland Laddie , Who briskly said , were't thou my Bride , I'de row thee in my Highland Pladdie . O my bonny bonny , etc No Butter-Box he seem'd to be , no English-Fop , nor Lowland Laddie , But by his mein he was well known , to be some Genty Highland Laddie , Oh my bonny bonny , etc His Quiver hang down by his Thigh , his Mein did show his Bow was ready , A thousand Darts flew from his Eye , and all fell down before his Lady . O my bonny bonny , etc It's Silken Rooms and Pearled Beds , and laced Shoes fit for a Lady ; But he can do't as wantonly , in Highland Trews and a belted Plaidie Oh my bonny bonny , etc I will have no Commander Man , Captain , Col'nel , nor a Caddie , If all my Friends had sworn and said , I'le have none but a Highland Laddie . O my bonny bonny , etc But when we came to Stirling Town , he promis'd to make me a Lady , But all the Tochar that I god , he row'd me in his Highland Plaidie . O my bonny bonny highland Laddie , Oh my bonny bonny highland Laddie , When I am sick and like to die , he'l row me in his Highland Plaidie . FINIS 