C : RB . I.262 ( 037 ) A CONGRATULATORY POEM Upon the Happy Nuptials of the Right Honourable CHARLES HOPE of Hopetoun , And the Very Virtuous LADY HENRIETTA JOHNSTON Daughter to the Right Honourable the Earl of ANNANDALE , Which was Solemnized on the 31st . of August , 1699. IN Autumn when Sedges decores the Fields , And Phoebus all plentiful Desires yields . These Creatures who did formerly bewail Their hard Estate , sing now in Annandale , There's Hope that Heavens will crown the year with good And Hoptoun blessed with all manner of Food . While Sun and Moon endure , so that there may Never be Want of Hope that Grace decay . For 'tis by Hope , That Love and Charity Are still upheld , without it both do die . May Hoptoun flourish still with Lady Hen - Rietta , and have a Stock of good Children . That thro' all Ages , there may never fail The Memory of Hope and Annandale . Whose Noble Fame does add to Hopton's Honour , He being by good Fate bestow'd upon Her. Who like to Flora in Spring of the Year , Sends forth a Fragrant Smell both far and near , To the Solace of all that See or Hear . Of these choice Virtues wherewith her tender Breast Is richly endu'd wherein true Hope does rest , And full Assurance may always obtain Of human Pleasure , Beauty pure and clean . Her Noble Predecessors ever have Prov'd in all Ages Pious , Wise and Grave , And famous in such actions as might tend Their Countrey's Good , and Int'rest to defend . So , all who know the Bridegroom and the Bride , Hope they will prove in time ( if Good betide ) Which is the hearty Pray'r of Muses , when They are encourag'd Virtue's Praise to pen . But if they find their Labour quite neglected , To pray or praise they cease , being dejected . Yet still there's Hope they may revive again , And not always improve their time in vain . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 037 ) A CONGRATULATORY POEM Upon the Happy Nuptials of the Right Honourable CHARLES HOPE of Hopetoun , And the Very Virtuous LADY HENRIETTA JOHNSTON Daughter to the Right Honourable the Earl of ANNANDALE , Which was Solemnized on the 31st . of August , 1699. IN Autumn when Sedges decores the Fields , And Phoebus all plentiful Desires yields . These Creatures who did formerly bewail Their hard Estate , sing now in Annandale , There's Hope that Heavens will crown the year with good And Hoptoun blessed with all manner of Food . While Sun and Moon endure , so that there may Never be Want of Hope that Grace decay . For 'tis by Hope , That Love and Charity Are still upheld , without it both do die . May Hoptoun flourish still with Lady Hen - Rietta , and have a Stock of good Children . That thro' all Ages , there may never fail The Memory of Hope and Annandale . Whose Noble Fame does add to Hopton's Honour , He being by good Fate bestow'd upon Her. Who like to Flora in Spring of the Year , Sends forth a Fragrant Smell both far and near , To the Solace of all that See or Hear . Of these choice Virtues wherewith her tender Breast Is richly endu'd wherein true Hope does rest , And full Assurance may always obtain Of human Pleasure , Beauty pure and clean . Her Noble Predecessors ever have Prov'd in all Ages Pious , Wise and Grave , And famous in such actions as might tend Their Countrey's Good , and Int'rest to defend . So , all who know the Bridegroom and the Bride , Hope they will prove in time ( if Good betide ) Which is the hearty Pray'r of Muses , when They are encourag'd Virtue's Praise to pen . But if they find their Labour quite neglected , To pray or praise they cease , being dejected . Yet still there's Hope they may revive again , And not always improve their time in vain . FINIS . 