C : RB . I.262 ( 032 ) The Banishment of Poverty , by His Royal Highness J.D.A. To the Tune of , The last Good-Night . POx sa that pultron Poverty , wa worth the time that I him saw , Sen first he laid his fang on me , My self from him I dought ne're draw . His wink to me has been a Law , He haunts me like a Penny-dog , Of him I stand far greater awe Than Pupil does of Pedagogue . The first time that he met with me , Was at a Clachan in the West , Its name I trow Kilbarchan be , Where Habbies drons blew many a blast . There we shook hands , called be his cast , And ill deed may that Custron die , For there he gripped me full fast , Where first I fell in Cautionary . Yet I had hope's to be reliev'd And fred from that full laidly Lown , Fernzier when Whigs were ill mischiev'd And forc'd to fling their weapons down . When we chas'd them from Glasgow Town , I with that Swinzer thought to grapple , But when Indemnity came down , The ladron pow'd me by the thraple . And yet in hope's of some Relief A Rode I made to Arinfrew , Where they did bravely buff my beeff , And made my Body black and blue : At Justice Court I them pursue , Expecting help by their Reproof , Indemnity brought nothing due , The WORSER --- a farthing for my Loof . But wishing that I would ride East , To trot on foot I soon would tyre , My page allow'd me not a beast , I wanted guilt to pay the hire . He and I lap o're many a fire , He hooked me at Calder Cult , But lang or I won to Snyps-myre The Ragged Rogue took me a whilt . By Holin-bush and Bridge of Bony , We bicker down towards Bankier , We fear'd no Reavers for our money , Nor Whilly-wha's to grip our gear . My tattered Tutor took no fear , Though we did travail in the mirk , He thought it fit when we drew near To filsh a Forage at Falkirk . No man would open me the door Because my Commorad stood by , They dread full ill I was right poor By my forcasten Company . Then Cunningham did me espy , By hue and hair he brought me in . He swore we should not part so dry , Though we were naked to the skin . We baid all Night , but lang e're day My cursed Companion bade me rise , I start up soon and took my way , He needed not to bid me twice . But what to do we did advice , In Lithgow we might not fit down , On a Scots Groat we baited thrice , And in at Night to Edinburgh Town . We held the Lang-gate to Leith-wynd , Where poorest purses use to be , And in the Caltoun lodged fine , Fit quarters for sik Company . Yet the High-Town I fain would see , But that my Man did me discharge . He will'd me Blackburns Ale to pry , And muff't my baird it was right large . The morn I ventur'd up the wind , And slung'd in at the Nether-bow , Thinking that Truiker for to tyne , Who does me damage what he dow . His Company he does bestow On me to my great grief and pain : E're I the thrang could wrestle throw , The Lown was at my heels again . I grein'd to gang on the plain stanes , To see if Comrades would me ken , We twa gade pacing there our lanes , The hungry hour 'twixt twelve and ane , When I kenned no way for to fen , My guts rumbl'd like a Hurl barrow I din'd with Saints and Noblemen , Ev'n sweet St. Giles & Earl of Murray , Tykes Testament take him for his treat , I needed not my teeth to pike , Though I was in a cruel sweat , He set not by , say what I like : I call'd him Turk and traked Tike , And wearied him with many a curse ; My bones were hard like a stone dyke , No Rig Marie was in my purse , Kind widow Caddel sent for me , To dine as she did oft forsooth , But ah ! alas , that might not be , Her house was o're near the Tollbooth Yet God reward her for her love And kindness , which I had full found , Most ready still for my behove , Ere this Hells hound took her in hand I slipped my page and stour'd to Leith , To try my credit at the wine , But foul a drible fil'd my teeth , He gripped me at the coffee sign . I sta down through the Neither wind , My Lady Semples house was near ! To enter there was my design , Where Poverty durst ne're appear , I din'd there , but I bade not long , My Lady fain would shelter me , But ah ! alas I needs must gang , And leave that comely company : Her Lad convey'd me with a key , Out through the Garden to the fields Ere I the Links could graithlie see , My governor was at my heels , I dought not dance to pi [ pe ] or harp , I had no stock for cards and dice ; But I suir to Sir William Sharp ; Who never made his council nice : That little man he is Right wise , And sharp as any Brier can be , He bravely gave me his advice , How I might poison poverty . Quoth he , there grows hard by the Dyal In Hattons Garden bright and sheen , A sovereign herb call'd penny Royal , Whilk all the year grows fresh & green Could you but gatther fair and clean , Your business would not go backward , But let account of it be seen , From the physicians of Exchequer , Or if that Ticket you bring with you , Come back to me you need not fear , For I some of that herb can give you , Whilk I have planted this same year , Your page it will cause disappear , Who waits on you against your will ; To gather it I shall you lear , In my own Yard of Stonny hill , But when I dread that would not work I underthought me of a wile , How I might at my leisure lurk , My graceless Guardian to beguile : It's but my galloping a mile ; Through Cannongate with little loss . Till I have Sanctuary a while , Within the Girth of Abbey closs : There I won in and blithe was I , When to the inner court I drew , My governor I did defy . For joy I clapped my wings and crew . There Messengers dare not pursue , Nor with their wands men's shoulders steer There dwells distressed Lairds enew In peace though they have little gear , There twa hours I did not tarry , Till my blessed fortune was to see A sighed sure by the mights of Mary , Of that brave Duke of Albanie . Where one blink of his princely eye , Put that foul foundling to the flight . Fra me he banished poverty , And gart him take his last goodnight . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 032 ) The Banishment of Poverty , by His Royal Highness J.D.A. To the Tune of , The last Good-Night . POx sa that pultron Poverty , wa worth the time that I him saw , Sen first he laid his fang on me , My self from him I dought ne're draw . His wink to me has been a Law , He haunts me like a Penny-dog , Of him I stand far greater awe Than Pupil does of Pedagogue . The first time that he met with me , Was at a Clachan in the West , Its name I trow Kilbarchan be , Where Habbies drons blew many a blast . There we shook hands , called be his cast , And ill deed may that Custron die , For there he gripped me full fast , Where first I fell in Cautionary . Yet I had hope's to be reliev'd And fred from that full laidly Lown , Fernzier when Whigs were ill mischiev'd And forc'd to fling their weapons down . When we chas'd them from Glasgow Town , I with that Swinzer thought to grapple , But when Indemnity came down , The ladron pow'd me by the thraple . And yet in hope's of some Relief A Rode I made to Arinfrew , Where they did bravely buff my beeff , And made my Body black and blue : At Justice Court I them pursue , Expecting help by their Reproof , Indemnity brought nothing due , The WORSER --- a farthing for my Loof . But wishing that I would ride East , To trot on foot I soon would tyre , My page allow'd me not a beast , I wanted guilt to pay the hire . He and I lap o're many a fire , He hooked me at Calder Cult , But lang or I won to Snyps-myre The Ragged Rogue took me a whilt . By Holin-bush and Bridge of Bony , We bicker down towards Bankier , We fear'd no Reavers for our money , Nor Whilly-wha's to grip our gear . My tattered Tutor took no fear , Though we did travail in the mirk , He thought it fit when we drew near To filsh a Forage at Falkirk . No man would open me the door Because my Commorad stood by , They dread full ill I was right poor By my forcasten Company . Then Cunningham did me espy , By hue and hair he brought me in . He swore we should not part so dry , Though we were naked to the skin . We baid all Night , but lang e're day My cursed Companion bade me rise , I start up soon and took my way , He needed not to bid me twice . But what to do we did advice , In Lithgow we might not fit down , On a Scots Groat we baited thrice , And in at Night to Edinburgh Town . We held the Lang-gate to Leith-wynd , Where poorest purses use to be , And in the Caltoun lodged fine , Fit quarters for sik Company . Yet the High-Town I fain would see , But that my Man did me discharge . He will'd me Blackburns Ale to pry , And muff't my baird it was right large . The morn I ventur'd up the wind , And slung'd in at the Nether-bow , Thinking that Truiker for to tyne , Who does me damage what he dow . His Company he does bestow On me to my great grief and pain : E're I the thrang could wrestle throw , The Lown was at my heels again . I grein'd to gang on the plain stanes , To see if Comrades would me ken , We twa gade pacing there our lanes , The hungry hour 'twixt twelve and ane , When I kenned no way for to fen , My guts rumbl'd like a Hurl barrow I din'd with Saints and Noblemen , Ev'n sweet St. Giles & Earl of Murray , Tykes Testament take him for his treat , I needed not my teeth to pike , Though I was in a cruel sweat , He set not by , say what I like : I call'd him Turk and traked Tike , And wearied him with many a curse ; My bones were hard like a stone dyke , No Rig Marie was in my purse , Kind widow Caddel sent for me , To dine as she did oft forsooth , But ah ! alas , that might not be , Her house was o're near the Tollbooth Yet God reward her for her love And kindness , which I had full found , Most ready still for my behove , Ere this Hells hound took her in hand I slipped my page and stour'd to Leith , To try my credit at the wine , But foul a drible fil'd my teeth , He gripped me at the coffee sign . I sta down through the Neither wind , My Lady Semples house was near ! To enter there was my design , Where Poverty durst ne're appear , I din'd there , but I bade not long , My Lady fain would shelter me , But ah ! alas I needs must gang , And leave that comely company : Her Lad convey'd me with a key , Out through the Garden to the fields Ere I the Links could graithlie see , My governor was at my heels , I dought not dance to pi [ pe ] or harp , I had no stock for cards and dice ; But I suir to Sir William Sharp ; Who never made his council nice : That little man he is Right wise , And sharp as any Brier can be , He bravely gave me his advice , How I might poison poverty . Quoth he , there grows hard by the Dyal In Hattons Garden bright and sheen , A sovereign herb call'd penny Royal , Whilk all the year grows fresh & green Could you but gatther fair and clean , Your business would not go backward , But let account of it be seen , From the physicians of Exchequer , Or if that Ticket you bring with you , Come back to me you need not fear , For I some of that herb can give you , Whilk I have planted this same year , Your page it will cause disappear , Who waits on you against your will ; To gather it I shall you lear , In my own Yard of Stonny hill , But when I dread that would not work I underthought me of a wile , How I might at my leisure lurk , My graceless Guardian to beguile : It's but my galloping a mile ; Through Cannongate with little loss . Till I have Sanctuary a while , Within the Girth of Abbey closs : There I won in and blithe was I , When to the inner court I drew , My governor I did defy . For joy I clapped my wings and crew . There Messengers dare not pursue , Nor with their wands men's shoulders steer There dwells distressed Lairds enew In peace though they have little gear , There twa hours I did not tarry , Till my blessed fortune was to see A sighed sure by the mights of Mary , Of that brave Duke of Albanie . Where one blink of his princely eye , Put that foul foundling to the flight . Fra me he banished poverty , And gart him take his last goodnight . FINIS . 