C : RB . I.262 ( 036 ) The 29th of MAY ; OR , Some Lines composed to the praise of Christ the Ancient of Days , Who made King CHARLES firm to stand against the Antichristian Band , And without hand did him restore to what his Father had before , A wonder truly to the Wit of wisest to consider it . WHY should we speak of Caesar's Acts , or Shimei's Treacheries , Or of the grand notorious Facts of Cromwell's Tyrannies , But what we all may gladly sing cheerfully chant and say That Charles the second came again on the twenty ninth of May : 2 Since that his Royal Person went from us beyond the Seas , Much Blood and Treasure hath been spent , but never obtained peace , Until the LORD with held his hand , which we may gladly say , And did a healing Balsom send on the twenty ninth of May ; 3 This healing Balsom sovereign was , and a very cordial thing , Which many Evils can suppress by virtue of a King , And poison'd blisteres overcome , which in three Kingdoms stay , 'Twas God that sent this healing Balsome on the twenty ninth of May . 4 Surely he was determined a mighty King on Earth , That God had so remembered , and kept him from his Birth , As David from the Lyons paws , whose Beard he boar away , So Charles the second made good Laws on the twenty ninth of May . 5 The King of Affrica subdued with Fire and by Sword , But Charles the second was endued with power from the LORD , And trained was in Davids Field with prayer night and day ; That he three stately Kingdoms held on the twenty ninth of May . 6 King David had a General strong , Joab was call'd by name , He made him Lord and General strong , and rul'd where ere he came , But through his spleen of envied quarrels he David did betray , But noble George brought home King Charles on the twenty ninth of May . 7 Now give me leave to speak so far as truth may justify Of that most glorious Midday Star at his Nativity . The grandest Planet of the Morn shin'd clearly as Noon-Day , Which was the time King Charles was born on the twenty ninth of May . 8 I think I could my self engage in deep Astrology To speak of that same Star presage of glorious Majesty , That a mighty Monarch he shall reign ? which makes me chant and say , That Charles the second he came home on the twenty ninth of May . 9 'Twould blunt the Pen of any Poet to write what I should dyt , But to the order of Honi soit just Tribute shall be pay'd For such a prudent , gracious Prince grant's never cease to pray , He heal'd the Sick when he came home on the twenty ninth of May . 10 Gods holy hand did him preserve his Angels did him guard ; Likewise his kindness did direct to make His Foes afraid : So that Davids Music we may sing , cheerfully chant and say That Charles the second came again on the twenty ninth of May . 11 He also did wear Joabs hands , but boar forth Davids praise , And like to upright Job he stood to wear forth Abram's days , He was the wit of Solomon , and upright in his ways , That like to Joseph he came home on the twenty ninth of May . 12 He also was like Daniel , His Star did follow him In all his Tragedies throughout , like that of Bethlehem , Twelve years he travell'd in Christendom , which makes me chant and say , That noble Charles came home again on the twenty ninth of May . 13 Now let all people celebrate , and keep this day so pure , For to remain throw Church and State for ever to endure , That Generations all may sing for honour of the Day , Which everlasting it should be on the twenty ninth of May . 14 So GOD preserve our noble King , the Duke of York also , Defend them from the Dragons Sting , and ev'ry Christian Foe , And let true loyal Subject's all cheerfully chant and say For the Glory of the Nations came home on the twenty ninth of May . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 036 ) The 29th of MAY ; OR , Some Lines composed to the praise of Christ the Ancient of Days , Who made King CHARLES firm to stand against the Antichristian Band , And without hand did him restore to what his Father had before , A wonder truly to the Wit of wisest to consider it . WHY should we speak of Caesar's Acts , or Shimei's Treacheries , Or of the grand notorious Facts of Cromwell's Tyrannies , But what we all may gladly sing cheerfully chant and say That Charles the second came again on the twenty ninth of May : 2 Since that his Royal Person went from us beyond the Seas , Much Blood and Treasure hath been spent , but never obtained peace , Until the LORD with held his hand , which we may gladly say , And did a healing Balsom send on the twenty ninth of May ; 3 This healing Balsom sovereign was , and a very cordial thing , Which many Evils can suppress by virtue of a King , And poison'd blisteres overcome , which in three Kingdoms stay , 'Twas God that sent this healing Balsome on the twenty ninth of May . 4 Surely he was determined a mighty King on Earth , That God had so remembered , and kept him from his Birth , As David from the Lyons paws , whose Beard he boar away , So Charles the second made good Laws on the twenty ninth of May . 5 The King of Affrica subdued with Fire and by Sword , But Charles the second was endued with power from the LORD , And trained was in Davids Field with prayer night and day ; That he three stately Kingdoms held on the twenty ninth of May . 6 King David had a General strong , Joab was call'd by name , He made him Lord and General strong , and rul'd where ere he came , But through his spleen of envied quarrels he David did betray , But noble George brought home King Charles on the twenty ninth of May . 7 Now give me leave to speak so far as truth may justify Of that most glorious Midday Star at his Nativity . The grandest Planet of the Morn shin'd clearly as Noon-Day , Which was the time King Charles was born on the twenty ninth of May . 8 I think I could my self engage in deep Astrology To speak of that same Star presage of glorious Majesty , That a mighty Monarch he shall reign ? which makes me chant and say , That Charles the second he came home on the twenty ninth of May . 9 'Twould blunt the Pen of any Poet to write what I should dyt , But to the order of Honi soit just Tribute shall be pay'd For such a prudent , gracious Prince grant's never cease to pray , He heal'd the Sick when he came home on the twenty ninth of May . 10 Gods holy hand did him preserve his Angels did him guard ; Likewise his kindness did direct to make His Foes afraid : So that Davids Music we may sing , cheerfully chant and say That Charles the second came again on the twenty ninth of May . 11 He also did wear Joabs hands , but boar forth Davids praise , And like to upright Job he stood to wear forth Abram's days , He was the wit of Solomon , and upright in his ways , That like to Joseph he came home on the twenty ninth of May . 12 He also was like Daniel , His Star did follow him In all his Tragedies throughout , like that of Bethlehem , Twelve years he travell'd in Christendom , which makes me chant and say , That noble Charles came home again on the twenty ninth of May . 13 Now let all people celebrate , and keep this day so pure , For to remain throw Church and State for ever to endure , That Generations all may sing for honour of the Day , Which everlasting it should be on the twenty ninth of May . 14 So GOD preserve our noble King , the Duke of York also , Defend them from the Dragons Sting , and ev'ry Christian Foe , And let true loyal Subject's all cheerfully chant and say For the Glory of the Nations came home on the twenty ninth of May . FINIS . 