C : RB . I.262 ( 038 ) BOTHWELL BANKS IS BONNY : OR , A Description of the New Mylne of Bothwell . To the Tune of , Who can blame my woe . I Waking by the Crystal streams of Clyd , at all good leisure : I [ ? ] e Month which keeps the name [ ? ] at brave second Cesar . That [ ? ] h bonny blooming Bothwel banks , v [ ? ] ( to paint truth on Paper ) M [ ? ] ose with all his martial ranks , victoriously did vaper . And passing by , a path did led by Adies Br [ ? ] oft feitly . A [ ? ] hich mov'd me to take heed , did sing and say most sweetly . Since Ceres with her golden arts , hath now begun to haunt thee : We shall consent , with joyful hearts , we cannot live and want thee . Which voice it self could not soon bound , though solemnly it sounds i Till at the very just rebound , the vocal Nymph resounds it . Which as upon Apollo's harp , does strike upon the waters . And friddouns there both flat and sharp , then musing on such matters . I went straightway to Meggats stone , and there without cessation I found of [ ? ] these things each one , that [ ? ] use [ ? ] [ ? ] worser demonstration : [ ? ] him [ ? ] his daughter fair [ ? ] pe did [ ? ] In a [ ? ] course with me just there , of Clyds delights the Centre : And said they were to go about to clear the sum for certain , Of future things was to fallen out , till now , which seem'd uncertain : Then told conform to whats before , they had a song contrived , The Nymphs that Bothwel Banks decore , to prompt the same subscribed . Unto the pleasant Birds in Banks , as Organs fit to vent it ; With cheerful notes then gave they thanks , in token they assented . The subject a prime aedifice of stately stamp and model : Was never seen such rare device , within the Banks of Bothwel . This house they straightway consecrate to Ceres her devotion , To hold her choicest Courts thereat , against all contrare motion , To which the Dame gave her paroll , and said this sentence smyland , This shall be my chief Capital , within all Britain's Island . And there anon within a space , from she had once possessed it ; Great pontifex unto that place , the noble Cors invested A Knave f [ ? ] Vicar , to allot , she was [ ? ] g a-granting . For w [ ? ] New Mills want a jot of [ ? ] never wanting . This suffragan must wear one from , still after his installing : A Cap and Cassick both conform , and proper to his Calling . His Orbs , his Spheres , his Font , his Fire , still art by art advancing : All run , turn , burn at his desire , his Sirp clothes white and glancing . Next Robin they create off hand , their Herald with commission , Who fairly took it off their hand , and that with low submission . Then Robin with his Crimson breast , on tops of Trees does venture , For to proclaim a Christmas Feast to all the Birds in Winter . For lorgesse , says he , of that lot wherewith Dame Ceres serv'd us , That we have found and Antidote against our foes that starv'd us : For when these Tyrants , scant and cold , makes us to chirp and chirle , Wee'l find some Cordials at this Hold more priz'd by us then Pearl . This service done , the Birds resort to Robin , and can thank him : And singing to his praise a port , among the best they rank him . Yet for all that , the Fowls of rief has Robin smally thanked , For why , no kind of Flesh or Beef was to be at that Banquet . For lacking that all kind of Grain by them is much abhorred : And so they count his song in vain , but Robin car'd not for it . Yet woe to hear poor Progne flyte , with Tunes not very pleasan He knew , the cause was of her spite that she could not be present . To suage fair Progne's wrath , just now when fruits are ripe in season : To make and In-fare they all vow , as best becomes , and reason . The which they hold with merry jest , and all to show their breeding . The Lark was Minstrel to the Feast all time they were afeeding . Bacchus and Ceres both , no doubt were there but for surprises : To John Cors gave strait warrants out , just at the next assizes , Hunger to hang , that cutthroat lown , unworthy their tuition : And drought without delay to drown , by legal execution . Then each Bird descant some new spring , each other still outstripping : In dance , the Partridge led the ring , that never tires of tripping . The Merle , for more Ale he cries , says Prea't , Brew-thick , who'l vent i When Ostler's hears of that brave guise , we hope they shall resent it . This Feast to crown , the Cock so shrill , as Trumpeter elected : He blew a blast , which to the Mill made head , as he directed . With which there's few can be compar'd for double Grist , or Gradzean : Her Clap , with ease , may well be herd through East and West Moormadzean . Much folk foretell , that of her good they will be much the better : Both Fowl in Wood , and Fish in Flood , confess to be her debtor . To her all Bothwell Nymphs cry out , our blessing still do haunt thee : So long as thou may turn about , we cannot live and want thee . Then who can think this aedifice were not worth our description : Not wanting a rare Frontispice , fixed with a fair inscription . So surely situate on a Rock , that no deluge can daunt her : Still casting up a stately Dock against the braes of Blantyre . The double streams comes her upon , at first which runs compactly : Divided by a native stone , which cuts the same exactly . Such branching sure is not in vain , which ( if I prove leill guesser ) Serves both for him that flowers the Grain , and for the fine Cloth-dresser . All this cries up the Craftsman still , and that in all discourses : Who , both in Fireworks has fine skill , and also in Water-courses . There's none beholds his plots , needs strive in any thing to check him : Timantus , though he were alive would scorn for to correct him . Who's gifted with ( as the case stands ) to many's apprehension , For quick dispatch , Briarius hands , and for his rare invention : A Daedalus may well be call'd , who , which did cause great mournings At Athens ; built in Crete that Hold , with many doubtsome turnings . As he knows how ( no doubt ) with ease like Daedalus , to manage His soaring flight , safe ov'r the seas , of skaith , or any damage : For his Landlord , we play , like things that envies heat eschewing : May safely , with well soddered wings , all perils pass of ruin . In sixteen hundreth fiftie eight , of our most blessed Redeemer : The foresaid Month , the Muses taught this song ; let no mis-deemer Sinisterly construct our mind , since that our prime intention To sport and peace are still inclin'd , abhorring all dissension . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 038 ) BOTHWELL BANKS IS BONNY : OR , A Description of the New Mylne of Bothwell . To the Tune of , Who can blame my woe . I Waking by the Crystal streams of Clyd , at all good leisure : I [ ? ] e Month which keeps the name [ ? ] at brave second Cesar . That [ ? ] h bonny blooming Bothwel banks , v [ ? ] ( to paint truth on Paper ) M [ ? ] ose with all his martial ranks , victoriously did vaper . And passing by , a path did led by Adies Br [ ? ] oft feitly . A [ ? ] hich mov'd me to take heed , did sing and say most sweetly . Since Ceres with her golden arts , hath now begun to haunt thee : We shall consent , with joyful hearts , we cannot live and want thee . Which voice it self could not soon bound , though solemnly it sounds i Till at the very just rebound , the vocal Nymph resounds it . Which as upon Apollo's harp , does strike upon the waters . And friddouns there both flat and sharp , then musing on such matters . I went straightway to Meggats stone , and there without cessation I found of [ ? ] these things each one , that [ ? ] use [ ? ] [ ? ] worser demonstration : [ ? ] him [ ? ] his daughter fair [ ? ] pe did [ ? ] In a [ ? ] course with me just there , of Clyds delights the Centre : And said they were to go about to clear the sum for certain , Of future things was to fallen out , till now , which seem'd uncertain : Then told conform to whats before , they had a song contrived , The Nymphs that Bothwel Banks decore , to prompt the same subscribed . Unto the pleasant Birds in Banks , as Organs fit to vent it ; With cheerful notes then gave they thanks , in token they assented . The subject a prime aedifice of stately stamp and model : Was never seen such rare device , within the Banks of Bothwel . This house they straightway consecrate to Ceres her devotion , To hold her choicest Courts thereat , against all contrare motion , To which the Dame gave her paroll , and said this sentence smyland , This shall be my chief Capital , within all Britain's Island . And there anon within a space , from she had once possessed it ; Great pontifex unto that place , the noble Cors invested A Knave f [ ? ] Vicar , to allot , she was [ ? ] g a-granting . For w [ ? ] New Mills want a jot of [ ? ] never wanting . This suffragan must wear one from , still after his installing : A Cap and Cassick both conform , and proper to his Calling . His Orbs , his Spheres , his Font , his Fire , still art by art advancing : All run , turn , burn at his desire , his Sirp clothes white and glancing . Next Robin they create off hand , their Herald with commission , Who fairly took it off their hand , and that with low submission . Then Robin with his Crimson breast , on tops of Trees does venture , For to proclaim a Christmas Feast to all the Birds in Winter . For lorgesse , says he , of that lot wherewith Dame Ceres serv'd us , That we have found and Antidote against our foes that starv'd us : For when these Tyrants , scant and cold , makes us to chirp and chirle , Wee'l find some Cordials at this Hold more priz'd by us then Pearl . This service done , the Birds resort to Robin , and can thank him : And singing to his praise a port , among the best they rank him . Yet for all that , the Fowls of rief has Robin smally thanked , For why , no kind of Flesh or Beef was to be at that Banquet . For lacking that all kind of Grain by them is much abhorred : And so they count his song in vain , but Robin car'd not for it . Yet woe to hear poor Progne flyte , with Tunes not very pleasan He knew , the cause was of her spite that she could not be present . To suage fair Progne's wrath , just now when fruits are ripe in season : To make and In-fare they all vow , as best becomes , and reason . The which they hold with merry jest , and all to show their breeding . The Lark was Minstrel to the Feast all time they were afeeding . Bacchus and Ceres both , no doubt were there but for surprises : To John Cors gave strait warrants out , just at the next assizes , Hunger to hang , that cutthroat lown , unworthy their tuition : And drought without delay to drown , by legal execution . Then each Bird descant some new spring , each other still outstripping : In dance , the Partridge led the ring , that never tires of tripping . The Merle , for more Ale he cries , says Prea't , Brew-thick , who'l vent i When Ostler's hears of that brave guise , we hope they shall resent it . This Feast to crown , the Cock so shrill , as Trumpeter elected : He blew a blast , which to the Mill made head , as he directed . With which there's few can be compar'd for double Grist , or Gradzean : Her Clap , with ease , may well be herd through East and West Moormadzean . Much folk foretell , that of her good they will be much the better : Both Fowl in Wood , and Fish in Flood , confess to be her debtor . To her all Bothwell Nymphs cry out , our blessing still do haunt thee : So long as thou may turn about , we cannot live and want thee . Then who can think this aedifice were not worth our description : Not wanting a rare Frontispice , fixed with a fair inscription . So surely situate on a Rock , that no deluge can daunt her : Still casting up a stately Dock against the braes of Blantyre . The double streams comes her upon , at first which runs compactly : Divided by a native stone , which cuts the same exactly . Such branching sure is not in vain , which ( if I prove leill guesser ) Serves both for him that flowers the Grain , and for the fine Cloth-dresser . All this cries up the Craftsman still , and that in all discourses : Who , both in Fireworks has fine skill , and also in Water-courses . There's none beholds his plots , needs strive in any thing to check him : Timantus , though he were alive would scorn for to correct him . Who's gifted with ( as the case stands ) to many's apprehension , For quick dispatch , Briarius hands , and for his rare invention : A Daedalus may well be call'd , who , which did cause great mournings At Athens ; built in Crete that Hold , with many doubtsome turnings . As he knows how ( no doubt ) with ease like Daedalus , to manage His soaring flight , safe ov'r the seas , of skaith , or any damage : For his Landlord , we play , like things that envies heat eschewing : May safely , with well soddered wings , all perils pass of ruin . In sixteen hundreth fiftie eight , of our most blessed Redeemer : The foresaid Month , the Muses taught this song ; let no mis-deemer Sinisterly construct our mind , since that our prime intention To sport and peace are still inclin'd , abhorring all dissension . FINIS . 