C : RB . I.262 ( 028 ) THE UNBYASSD PATRIOT A POEM ON His Grace JAMES Duke of HAMILTON . ALL Men of Renown give Ear , Your Country's Glory who mind , A Precedent , lo ! You have here , Who comes no Mortal behind . In Trouble , in Toil , and Fatigue , For his Country's Honour and Wealth ; 'Gainst Shams , 'gainst Plots and Intrigue . A Bumper , Brave Boys , to his Health . He wrestles , he strives , he struggles , His Country's Right to maintain . Court Favours to him are but Bubbles , He does not regard them a Pin : He does not regard them a Pin Boys , He does not regard them a Pin : His Country's Welfare is still his Chief Care , And he counts not Court Favours a Pin. All Honest Brave Boys give Ear , Who stand for their Country's Right ; Attend to my Song of this Peer , Who for You contends with Might . By Bribes none can him pervert ; Nor Threatening make him to swerve : But with a True and Gen'rous Heart , He glory's his Country to serve . He wrestles , he strives , etc All the who base Slavery abhor , and plead for Freedom and Right , Fain would this Prince to you Restore , What's your just endue if he might And tho by much power he's o'recome , and cannot his aim make good None can the Blame Charge upon him , Seeing all that was Ill he withstood . He wrestles , he strives , etc All you who Religion prefer , To Bribes and pitiful pelf , Lo here's a Great Prince , who takes care , Of you more than for Himself , His Zeal for the Church does appear , In pleading for it's Concerns , But it's overthrow we may fear , When Lordly proud Prelates Governs . He wrestles , he strives , etc And Accrostick JUst to His Sovereign , to his Country true , A Prince whose Merit's known not to a few , Meek as a Lamb , yet as a Lion Bold , Ever Renown'd , not to be Brib'd by Gold , Surpassing all , that of him can be told , DEvote and good , for Property and Right , Unskilled in Trick , his Actions fair and bright , Keen to Promote the Nation's Wealth and Good Earn'stly opposing all who it withstood . Of steady purpose and of Counsel Sage , Free from Black Vice , the Scandal of th' Age . HOnour'd by GOD and Man , this Prince we see , Among Great Men few , like his Grace there be , 'Mongst most of them Self-Interest does prevail , In him not so , the Public casts the Scale , Labour and Toil , his Element does seem , To forward Good Designs , and stop the Stream Of Slav'ry , and Oppression's dreadful power : No more I say , but he of Men's the Flow'r . C : RB . I.262 ( 028 ) THE UNBYASSD PATRIOT A POEM ON His Grace JAMES Duke of HAMILTON . ALL Men of Renown give Ear , Your Country's Glory who mind , A Precedent , lo ! You have here , Who comes no Mortal behind . In Trouble , in Toil , and Fatigue , For his Country's Honour and Wealth ; 'Gainst Shams , 'gainst Plots and Intrigue . A Bumper , Brave Boys , to his Health . He wrestles , he strives , he struggles , His Country's Right to maintain . Court Favours to him are but Bubbles , He does not regard them a Pin : He does not regard them a Pin Boys , He does not regard them a Pin : His Country's Welfare is still his Chief Care , And he counts not Court Favours a Pin. All Honest Brave Boys give Ear , Who stand for their Country's Right ; Attend to my Song of this Peer , Who for You contends with Might . By Bribes none can him pervert ; Nor Threatening make him to swerve : But with a True and Gen'rous Heart , He glory's his Country to serve . He wrestles , he strives , etc All the who base Slavery abhor , and plead for Freedom and Right , Fain would this Prince to you Restore , What's your just endue if he might And tho by much power he's o'recome , and cannot his aim make good None can the Blame Charge upon him , Seeing all that was Ill he withstood . He wrestles , he strives , etc All you who Religion prefer , To Bribes and pitiful pelf , Lo here's a Great Prince , who takes care , Of you more than for Himself , His Zeal for the Church does appear , In pleading for it's Concerns , But it's overthrow we may fear , When Lordly proud Prelates Governs . He wrestles , he strives , etc And Accrostick JUst to His Sovereign , to his Country true , A Prince whose Merit's known not to a few , Meek as a Lamb , yet as a Lion Bold , Ever Renown'd , not to be Brib'd by Gold , Surpassing all , that of him can be told , DEvote and good , for Property and Right , Unskilled in Trick , his Actions fair and bright , Keen to Promote the Nation's Wealth and Good Earn'stly opposing all who it withstood . Of steady purpose and of Counsel Sage , Free from Black Vice , the Scandal of th' Age . HOnour'd by GOD and Man , this Prince we see , Among Great Men few , like his Grace there be , 'Mongst most of them Self-Interest does prevail , In him not so , the Public casts the Scale , Labour and Toil , his Element does seem , To forward Good Designs , and stop the Stream Of Slav'ry , and Oppression's dreadful power : No more I say , but he of Men's the Flow'r . 