C : RB . I.262 ( 042 ) To His HIGHNESS the Prince of Orange , The Humble ADDRESS and SUPPLICATION of the CAMERONIAN PRESBYTERIANS IN SCOTLAND IN first place , SIR , we humbly crave , That You this poor Address receive ; Do not disdain it , though its Fashion Be not like others of the Nation : Who are more used we do confess , In every Change to make Address Sometime for this , sometimes for that , And oft themselves knew not for what . Next with our Thanks as we can give it From honest Hearts , You may believe it . Its known so to the whole Nation , That we use no dissimulation , But tell our mind like honest Fellows , For which our Brothers god the Gallows . Now let Your Wisdom , SIR , Inherent , Led You forth as GODS Vicegerent ; That You revive the good old Cause , Re-establish Fundamental Laws And Covenants that better far , Then Test that does with itself jarr Whose Tenor if You keep and scope , Then SIR you need not fear the Pope . Put down the Prelates , and all those That gave your Neck , so to your Foes ; And makes Heavens Darling when they please , It You their Learn'd Address revise : Whose Pride and Avarice is such , As is not kenned among the Dutch . They're not such Bishops as the Apostles , Does Describe in their Epistles , First they are not apt to Teach , Since once a Year they do but Preach , And seldom that unless it tares , They Preach at Great Men's Funerals . Where with great Freedom they will lie , In the Blessed Chair of Verity . Not given to Wine the Apostles says , Hamiltons practice this denies . Who has been so much given to Wine , He's more good Fellow then Divine . Thirdly the Husband of one Wife , Let Band string John say on his Life ; And Conscience he is such and one , We will him send to Collington . Of filthy Lucre they're not free Their Benefices does testify And farther that does us enrage , They Lord over GODS Heritage . Which is a great since in our sighed , If we do read the Bible right . If such be unreprovable We to Your Self SIR , do appeal . That they want Bishops Qualities , It is made out Your Highness sees . We Love not much SIR , to Reflect , But we must Villainy Delect . When we do see it in a Lown , Though it be covered with a Gown . Therefore again we do Obtest . You purge the Land of them and Test. For it is known they are not free Of Bloodshed and of Perjury . And since that cries against this Land , Which made you take your Life in hand . And bravely gain the point at length , At which we aim'd but wanted Strength . To crush the head of Tyranny , And Absolute Supremacy . Therefore this speech we do direct Humbly entreating your Protect . [ ? ] s from Dragoons and their old Horse , And from the Rage of Bloody Force , If you shall look on us as Faulty , Your Enemies will say your Guilty . Seeing we suffered all along , For Points your Highness thinks not wrong . And Lastly SIR , we you Advice , For Sometime Fools Counsels the Wise . Cause purge the Kirk of men not sent , The Curats who have made this Rend . That were Thrust in for to keep Room , And open kept the Door for Rome . Cause swipe the Courts of Bawds and Whores , And Courtiers that are ill doers . And when all such are turned out , It's likely SIR we'l come to Court . Victorious SIR , we humbly beg , That you may purge us from such Dreg . And grant what we before express , And we shall freely pay the Cess . Or any Tribute you impose , And shall SIR , pray against your Foes . Your Highness knows the Prayers of such , If fervant be availeth much . We were the first , SIR , in the Nation , Who did proclaim your Declaration . Where all may see it's a false thing , To say we do not own a King . We do confess , we did gainstand , Impious Laws made in the Land : And Duke of York whom they made King , And that SIR , for no other thing , But that we judged by our Bible , He should not King but had a Libel . Because he was not presbyter , And firmly thought us to ensnare . And bring us back by Boots and Rope , To damn our Souls and serve the Pope . But Providence did send you here , To put a stop to their Carrier . When the Army herd of Switzer Saints , From Atheists they turned Protestants . Of sudden , and took such remorse , They left their King both Foot and Horse . For which we in one we do Agree , To serve you to Posterity . SIR , Take this Speech as we can write it , For we have few Learned Men to dyte it . No sonner god we men of sense , But still the Council sent them hence : By Bullet , Rope , or otherways , Suffered them not at death to Pray . But beatrice their Drums and made a sport , Of Alva lest they should come short . It would be tedious to enlarge , And give our Enemies their Charge . The Hind let lose , when it is seen , Will tell you SIR , what we have been . And other Pieces of great worth , Which else we have and shall set forth . By which You'll find we are not Noddies , Though we be poor and wandering Bodies . We hope Your Highness will excuse , That we Your Patience will abuse , With this Tedious and Rude Rhyme , When you are Throng and has no time . That were prolict this is the Reason , To Supplicat before was Treason . We wish you well , SIR , in a word , You we will serve with Life and Sword . Printed in the Year MDCLXXXIX . C : RB . I.262 ( 042 ) To His HIGHNESS the Prince of Orange , The Humble ADDRESS and SUPPLICATION of the CAMERONIAN PRESBYTERIANS IN SCOTLAND IN first place , SIR , we humbly crave , That You this poor Address receive ; Do not disdain it , though its Fashion Be not like others of the Nation : Who are more used we do confess , In every Change to make Address Sometime for this , sometimes for that , And oft themselves knew not for what . Next with our Thanks as we can give it From honest Hearts , You may believe it . Its known so to the whole Nation , That we use no dissimulation , But tell our mind like honest Fellows , For which our Brothers god the Gallows . Now let Your Wisdom , SIR , Inherent , Led You forth as GODS Vicegerent ; That You revive the good old Cause , Re-establish Fundamental Laws And Covenants that better far , Then Test that does with itself jarr Whose Tenor if You keep and scope , Then SIR you need not fear the Pope . Put down the Prelates , and all those That gave your Neck , so to your Foes ; And makes Heavens Darling when they please , It You their Learn'd Address revise : Whose Pride and Avarice is such , As is not kenned among the Dutch . They're not such Bishops as the Apostles , Does Describe in their Epistles , First they are not apt to Teach , Since once a Year they do but Preach , And seldom that unless it tares , They Preach at Great Men's Funerals . Where with great Freedom they will lie , In the Blessed Chair of Verity . Not given to Wine the Apostles says , Hamiltons practice this denies . Who has been so much given to Wine , He's more good Fellow then Divine . Thirdly the Husband of one Wife , Let Band string John say on his Life ; And Conscience he is such and one , We will him send to Collington . Of filthy Lucre they're not free Their Benefices does testify And farther that does us enrage , They Lord over GODS Heritage . Which is a great since in our sighed , If we do read the Bible right . If such be unreprovable We to Your Self SIR , do appeal . That they want Bishops Qualities , It is made out Your Highness sees . We Love not much SIR , to Reflect , But we must Villainy Delect . When we do see it in a Lown , Though it be covered with a Gown . Therefore again we do Obtest . You purge the Land of them and Test. For it is known they are not free Of Bloodshed and of Perjury . And since that cries against this Land , Which made you take your Life in hand . And bravely gain the point at length , At which we aim'd but wanted Strength . To crush the head of Tyranny , And Absolute Supremacy . Therefore this speech we do direct Humbly entreating your Protect . [ ? ] s from Dragoons and their old Horse , And from the Rage of Bloody Force , If you shall look on us as Faulty , Your Enemies will say your Guilty . Seeing we suffered all along , For Points your Highness thinks not wrong . And Lastly SIR , we you Advice , For Sometime Fools Counsels the Wise . Cause purge the Kirk of men not sent , The Curats who have made this Rend . That were Thrust in for to keep Room , And open kept the Door for Rome . Cause swipe the Courts of Bawds and Whores , And Courtiers that are ill doers . And when all such are turned out , It's likely SIR we'l come to Court . Victorious SIR , we humbly beg , That you may purge us from such Dreg . And grant what we before express , And we shall freely pay the Cess . Or any Tribute you impose , And shall SIR , pray against your Foes . Your Highness knows the Prayers of such , If fervant be availeth much . We were the first , SIR , in the Nation , Who did proclaim your Declaration . Where all may see it's a false thing , To say we do not own a King . We do confess , we did gainstand , Impious Laws made in the Land : And Duke of York whom they made King , And that SIR , for no other thing , But that we judged by our Bible , He should not King but had a Libel . Because he was not presbyter , And firmly thought us to ensnare . And bring us back by Boots and Rope , To damn our Souls and serve the Pope . But Providence did send you here , To put a stop to their Carrier . When the Army herd of Switzer Saints , From Atheists they turned Protestants . Of sudden , and took such remorse , They left their King both Foot and Horse . For which we in one we do Agree , To serve you to Posterity . SIR , Take this Speech as we can write it , For we have few Learned Men to dyte it . No sonner god we men of sense , But still the Council sent them hence : By Bullet , Rope , or otherways , Suffered them not at death to Pray . But beatrice their Drums and made a sport , Of Alva lest they should come short . It would be tedious to enlarge , And give our Enemies their Charge . The Hind let lose , when it is seen , Will tell you SIR , what we have been . And other Pieces of great worth , Which else we have and shall set forth . By which You'll find we are not Noddies , Though we be poor and wandering Bodies . We hope Your Highness will excuse , That we Your Patience will abuse , With this Tedious and Rude Rhyme , When you are Throng and has no time . That were prolict this is the Reason , To Supplicat before was Treason . We wish you well , SIR , in a word , You we will serve with Life and Sword . Printed in the Year MDCLXXXIX . 