C : RB . I.262 ( 059 ) BE VALIANT STILL , etc A NEW SONG Much in request . Being the Advice of and experienced Lady in Martial Affairs , to her Lover a young Solider . Tune of , And old Carl to dannten me . BE valiant still , be valiant still , Be stout and great , and valiant still , And I'll embrace you in my Arms , And please you with Loves pleasant Charms And then my Heatt shall be at rest , In the Thoughts of him whom I love best . Be valiant still , be valiant still , Be stout and great , and valiant still . And I will place you on a Stage , To fight a Duel you must engage , And from all Wounds you shall be clear , You'll gain the Prize you need not fear . Be valiant still , etc And if you'll try that manly sport , I'll make you Captain of a Fort , And show you how to lay the Siege , And fire when e'er occasion needs . Be valiant still , etc And if you'll venture to scale the Wall , I'll make you General of all ; Be stout and great , and always bold , And without all doubt you'll gain the Hold . Be valiant still , etc And if a City will not yield , Then place your Tents into the Field , Throw in your Bomb-balls then at large , But be sure your Piece be found [ l ] y charg'd : Be valiant still , etc FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 059 ) BE VALIANT STILL , etc A NEW SONG Much in request . Being the Advice of and experienced Lady in Martial Affairs , to her Lover a young Solider . Tune of , And old Carl to dannten me . BE valiant still , be valiant still , Be stout and great , and valiant still , And I'll embrace you in my Arms , And please you with Loves pleasant Charms And then my Heatt shall be at rest , In the Thoughts of him whom I love best . Be valiant still , be valiant still , Be stout and great , and valiant still . And I will place you on a Stage , To fight a Duel you must engage , And from all Wounds you shall be clear , You'll gain the Prize you need not fear . Be valiant still , etc And if you'll try that manly sport , I'll make you Captain of a Fort , And show you how to lay the Siege , And fire when e'er occasion needs . Be valiant still , etc And if you'll venture to scale the Wall , I'll make you General of all ; Be stout and great , and always bold , And without all doubt you'll gain the Hold . Be valiant still , etc And if a City will not yield , Then place your Tents into the Field , Throw in your Bomb-balls then at large , But be sure your Piece be found [ l ] y charg'd : Be valiant still , etc FINIS . 