C : RB . I.262 ( 040 ) To His HIGHNESS the Prince of Orange , The Humble ADDRESS and SUPPLICATION of the PARISHONERS and INHABITANTS Of the Famous TOWN of LINTON SUBMETRAPOLITAN of TIVIOTDALE . PROLOGUE . Victorious SIR , still faithful to thy Word , Who Conquer more by Kindness then by Sword , As thy Ancestors brave with matchless Vigor Caus'd Hogen Mogon make so great a Figure . So Thou that art great Britains only Moyses ; To guard our Ancient Thirstle with the Roses : The discords of the Haro , in tune to bring And crub the pride of Lilies in the Spring . Permit , Great SIR , poor Us among the Press In humble terms , to make this blunt Address ; In Linton Verse , for as your Highness knows You have good store of Nonesense else in Prose . SIR , first of all that it may please Your Highness to give Us and ease ; Of our Oppressions more or less , Especially that Knave the Cess . And Poverty for Pity cries To modify our dear Excise : It You'l not trust Us when we say't , Faith , SIR . We are not able to pay' Which makes Us sighs when we should sleep , And fast when We should go to Mea Yea scarce can get it when to borrow , Yet drink we must to slocken sorrow , For this our Grief , SIR , makes Us now Sleep seldom found till We be fow . SIR , Let no needless Forces stand , To plague this poor , but valiant Land. And let no Rhetoric procure Pensions only but to the Poor . That Spendthrift Courtiers get no share To make the King's Exchequer bore . Then Valiant SIR , We beg at large , You will free Quarters quite discharge . We dwell upon the King's high Street , And scarce a day we miss some Cheat . For Horse and Foot when they come by , SIR , be they Hungry , Cold or Dry ; They Eat and Drink , and burn our Peats , With fiend a Farthing in their Breicks . Destroy our Heigh , and press our Horse , While break our Head's and that is worse Consume both Men and Horses Meat , And make both Wives and Bairns to great , By what is said your Highness may Judge if two Stipends we can pay : And therefore if You wish us well You must with all speed Reconcile ; Two Jangling Sons of the same Mother , Elliot and Hay with one another ; Pardon Us , SIR , for all Your Wit , I fear that prove a kittle Put . Which tho' the wiser Sort condole , Our Linton Wives still blow the Coal ; And Women here as well we ken , Would have Us all John Thomsons Men . Therefore , dear SIR , e're You be gone , Cast Kirk and Meeting-House in one ; Whose mutual Charities are as scant As Papists is to Protestant . SIR , it was said ere I was born , Who blows best bears away the Horn ; And he that Lives and Preaches best Should win the Pulpit from the rest . The next Petition that We make , Is that for brave Old Teviots sake , Who had great Kindness for this Place , You'l move the Duke our Master's Grace ; To put a Knock upon our Steeple , To show the Hours to Country People : For We that live into the Town , Our sighed grows dim by Sun go down . And charge , SIR , our Street to mend , And Cassey it from end to end . Pay but the Workmen for their pains , And we will jointly led the Stones In ease your Highness put him to it , The Mercat Customs well may do it . As for himself he is not rash , Because he wants the ready Cash ; For if your Highness for some Reasons ; Should honour Linton with your Presence ; Your milk white Pelfrey would turn brown , E're you ride half but throw the Town . And that would put upon our Name , A blot of everlasting Shame Who are reputed Honest Fellows , And stout as ever William Wallace . Lastly , Great SIR , discharge us all . To go to Court without a Call . Discharge Laird Gifferd and Hog Yards ; James Dowglas and our Linton Lairds ; Old William Younger and Geordy Purdy , Laird Gissoord , Scroges , and little Swordie And English Andrew , who has skill , To Knap at every word so well . Let Kingside stay for the Town-Head , Till that old Peevish Wife be Dead ; And that they go on no pretence , To put this Place to great Expense . Nor yet shall contribute their share , To any who are going there . To strive to be the greatest Minion Or plead for this , or that Opinion If we have any things to spair , Poor Widows they should be our Care : The Fatherless , the Blind , the Lame , That Starve , and to Beg think shame . So Farewell , SIR , here is no Treason But wealth of Rhyme and part of Reason . And for to save some needless Coast , We send this our Address by Post . EPILOGUE . THrice Noble ORANGE , Bless'd be the Time , Such fair Fruit prosper'd in our Northern Climb : Whose Sweet and Cordial Joyce affords us Matter , And Sauce to make our Capons eat the better . Long may Thou thrive and still thy Arms Advance , Till England send and Orange into France : Well guarded thorrow proud Neptun's Waves , and then What's sweet to us , may prove sour Sauce to them . As England does , so Caledonia boasts She'l Fight with Orange for the Lord of Hosts . And tho' the Tyrrant hath unsheath'd his Sword , Fie fear him not , he never keep't his word . C : RB . I.262 ( 040 ) To His HIGHNESS the Prince of Orange , The Humble ADDRESS and SUPPLICATION of the PARISHONERS and INHABITANTS Of the Famous TOWN of LINTON SUBMETRAPOLITAN of TIVIOTDALE . PROLOGUE . Victorious SIR , still faithful to thy Word , Who Conquer more by Kindness then by Sword , As thy Ancestors brave with matchless Vigor Caus'd Hogen Mogon make so great a Figure . So Thou that art great Britains only Moyses ; To guard our Ancient Thirstle with the Roses : The discords of the Haro , in tune to bring And crub the pride of Lilies in the Spring . Permit , Great SIR , poor Us among the Press In humble terms , to make this blunt Address ; In Linton Verse , for as your Highness knows You have good store of Nonesense else in Prose . SIR , first of all that it may please Your Highness to give Us and ease ; Of our Oppressions more or less , Especially that Knave the Cess . And Poverty for Pity cries To modify our dear Excise : It You'l not trust Us when we say't , Faith , SIR . We are not able to pay' Which makes Us sighs when we should sleep , And fast when We should go to Mea Yea scarce can get it when to borrow , Yet drink we must to slocken sorrow , For this our Grief , SIR , makes Us now Sleep seldom found till We be fow . SIR , Let no needless Forces stand , To plague this poor , but valiant Land. And let no Rhetoric procure Pensions only but to the Poor . That Spendthrift Courtiers get no share To make the King's Exchequer bore . Then Valiant SIR , We beg at large , You will free Quarters quite discharge . We dwell upon the King's high Street , And scarce a day we miss some Cheat . For Horse and Foot when they come by , SIR , be they Hungry , Cold or Dry ; They Eat and Drink , and burn our Peats , With fiend a Farthing in their Breicks . Destroy our Heigh , and press our Horse , While break our Head's and that is worse Consume both Men and Horses Meat , And make both Wives and Bairns to great , By what is said your Highness may Judge if two Stipends we can pay : And therefore if You wish us well You must with all speed Reconcile ; Two Jangling Sons of the same Mother , Elliot and Hay with one another ; Pardon Us , SIR , for all Your Wit , I fear that prove a kittle Put . Which tho' the wiser Sort condole , Our Linton Wives still blow the Coal ; And Women here as well we ken , Would have Us all John Thomsons Men . Therefore , dear SIR , e're You be gone , Cast Kirk and Meeting-House in one ; Whose mutual Charities are as scant As Papists is to Protestant . SIR , it was said ere I was born , Who blows best bears away the Horn ; And he that Lives and Preaches best Should win the Pulpit from the rest . The next Petition that We make , Is that for brave Old Teviots sake , Who had great Kindness for this Place , You'l move the Duke our Master's Grace ; To put a Knock upon our Steeple , To show the Hours to Country People : For We that live into the Town , Our sighed grows dim by Sun go down . And charge , SIR , our Street to mend , And Cassey it from end to end . Pay but the Workmen for their pains , And we will jointly led the Stones In ease your Highness put him to it , The Mercat Customs well may do it . As for himself he is not rash , Because he wants the ready Cash ; For if your Highness for some Reasons ; Should honour Linton with your Presence ; Your milk white Pelfrey would turn brown , E're you ride half but throw the Town . And that would put upon our Name , A blot of everlasting Shame Who are reputed Honest Fellows , And stout as ever William Wallace . Lastly , Great SIR , discharge us all . To go to Court without a Call . Discharge Laird Gifferd and Hog Yards ; James Dowglas and our Linton Lairds ; Old William Younger and Geordy Purdy , Laird Gissoord , Scroges , and little Swordie And English Andrew , who has skill , To Knap at every word so well . Let Kingside stay for the Town-Head , Till that old Peevish Wife be Dead ; And that they go on no pretence , To put this Place to great Expense . Nor yet shall contribute their share , To any who are going there . To strive to be the greatest Minion Or plead for this , or that Opinion If we have any things to spair , Poor Widows they should be our Care : The Fatherless , the Blind , the Lame , That Starve , and to Beg think shame . So Farewell , SIR , here is no Treason But wealth of Rhyme and part of Reason . And for to save some needless Coast , We send this our Address by Post . EPILOGUE . THrice Noble ORANGE , Bless'd be the Time , Such fair Fruit prosper'd in our Northern Climb : Whose Sweet and Cordial Joyce affords us Matter , And Sauce to make our Capons eat the better . Long may Thou thrive and still thy Arms Advance , Till England send and Orange into France : Well guarded thorrow proud Neptun's Waves , and then What's sweet to us , may prove sour Sauce to them . As England does , so Caledonia boasts She'l Fight with Orange for the Lord of Hosts . And tho' the Tyrrant hath unsheath'd his Sword , Fie fear him not , he never keep't his word . 