C : RB . I.262 ( 053 ) THE OLD WORLD OR It is far from the World that I have seen . To be Sung to its own Proper new Tune . WHen Vesperus with Visage grey , Had darkened all our Hemispher , And Phoebus fled out of the way , Absenting all his beams so clear , I herd a Man of Seventie Year , With Sobs soar sighing from the spleen , Saying as [ ? ] fter you shall hear , Wheoe is the world that I have seen . The World of Lawtie , Love and Truth , Of Manhood , Might and Nobleness , The World of Pity and of Rues . The World of Perfect steadfastness ? All were enclin'd to Soothfastness , For then Deceit could no Man mean , There was good Cheer and Merriness , Into the World that I have seen . Then Dearth durst no ways show his Face , John Commonwealth was well maintain'd And Hospitals in every place , For silly ones were then ordain'd , All Deadly feeds were well preveen'd , By prudent Men which went between , Then were but few for Gold that groan'd Into the World that I have seen . The Golden world that might be call'd When wealth and welfare led the Dance ; Then Marriage was not Bought nor Sold , Great Usurers made none alliance , If she was of Good Governance , For Gold they carried not a Prine . Now Money makes Good Ordinance , For by the World that I have seen . Now Malice , Murder , Dearth & cumber Overspreads our Country East and West , Guiltless Slaughter out of number , Judgement and Justice are suppress The poor man daily is oppressed . And sport and play is counted Keen , A true man worse not where to rest , Alace the World that I have seen . Then Manhood went by Force and Might Who reaved was revng'd no wrong ; None sought by Treason nor by Slight , To lie in wait his Foe to fang , Their Shearing Swords were not so long , And yet their Courage was Right keen , Their hardy Hearts were Stout & strong Into the World that I have seen . The ground was fertile with great encrase And Cattle kindly brought forth Store ; Now wealth forsooth does fast Decrease , Pride , Povety , and Foul vain Glory : And Riches lurk in Hold and Boar , Seditions daily growing green , Assaults the Realm ay more and more , Far by tho World that I have seen . The Men had whole Pre-eminence , And Women were Obedient , The Commons knew no indigence , Nobles then Raised not their Rend , The Ground was Rich , the Heir content Great Hoards of Money then have been , Now all that wealth away is went , And where the World that I have seen ? The Temporal State stood well content , None longed for and Abacie . None sought to reave the Kirk her Rend That was Christs Garment thought to be The Judge left partiality , And Lawyers sought no wrongous gain , The Session Banished Bribery , Into the World that I have seen . Then Credit craved no Hand Writ , For height held out thro' he should pine , Promise sough not for to be free , And Honour would no wnyes decline : Faith and Friendship kept them full fine , And Honesty held Conscience clean , Kinsman strove not for Mine and thine , O where's the world that I have seen . Now worse & worse the world grows ay , No Betterment appears to be , The nearer hand the Latter day , The more mischief does multiply ; Oh thou that reign'st in Persons Three , Whose Power does all things contain , Grant us to rest in Peace with THEE From this worst world that e're was seen . AMENC : RB . I.262 ( 053 ) THE OLD WORLD OR It is far from the World that I have seen . To be Sung to its own Proper new Tune . WHen Vesperus with Visage grey , Had darkened all our Hemispher , And Phoebus fled out of the way , Absenting all his beams so clear , I herd a Man of Seventie Year , With Sobs soar sighing from the spleen , Saying as [ ? ] fter you shall hear , Wheoe is the world that I have seen . The World of Lawtie , Love and Truth , Of Manhood , Might and Nobleness , The World of Pity and of Rues . The World of Perfect steadfastness ? All were enclin'd to Soothfastness , For then Deceit could no Man mean , There was good Cheer and Merriness , Into the World that I have seen . Then Dearth durst no ways show his Face , John Commonwealth was well maintain'd And Hospitals in every place , For silly ones were then ordain'd , All Deadly feeds were well preveen'd , By prudent Men which went between , Then were but few for Gold that groan'd Into the World that I have seen . The Golden world that might be call'd When wealth and welfare led the Dance ; Then Marriage was not Bought nor Sold , Great Usurers made none alliance , If she was of Good Governance , For Gold they carried not a Prine . Now Money makes Good Ordinance , For by the World that I have seen . Now Malice , Murder , Dearth & cumber Overspreads our Country East and West , Guiltless Slaughter out of number , Judgement and Justice are suppress The poor man daily is oppressed . And sport and play is counted Keen , A true man worse not where to rest , Alace the World that I have seen . Then Manhood went by Force and Might Who reaved was revng'd no wrong ; None sought by Treason nor by Slight , To lie in wait his Foe to fang , Their Shearing Swords were not so long , And yet their Courage was Right keen , Their hardy Hearts were Stout & strong Into the World that I have seen . The ground was fertile with great encrase And Cattle kindly brought forth Store ; Now wealth forsooth does fast Decrease , Pride , Povety , and Foul vain Glory : And Riches lurk in Hold and Boar , Seditions daily growing green , Assaults the Realm ay more and more , Far by tho World that I have seen . The Men had whole Pre-eminence , And Women were Obedient , The Commons knew no indigence , Nobles then Raised not their Rend , The Ground was Rich , the Heir content Great Hoards of Money then have been , Now all that wealth away is went , And where the World that I have seen ? The Temporal State stood well content , None longed for and Abacie . None sought to reave the Kirk her Rend That was Christs Garment thought to be The Judge left partiality , And Lawyers sought no wrongous gain , The Session Banished Bribery , Into the World that I have seen . Then Credit craved no Hand Writ , For height held out thro' he should pine , Promise sough not for to be free , And Honour would no wnyes decline : Faith and Friendship kept them full fine , And Honesty held Conscience clean , Kinsman strove not for Mine and thine , O where's the world that I have seen . Now worse & worse the world grows ay , No Betterment appears to be , The nearer hand the Latter day , The more mischief does multiply ; Oh thou that reign'st in Persons Three , Whose Power does all things contain , Grant us to rest in Peace with THEE From this worst world that e're was seen . AMEN 