C : RB . I.262 ( 047 ) The last Dying Words of BONNY HECK A Famous Grey-Hound in the Shire of Fife . ALas , alas , quo' bonny Heck , On former days when I reflect ! I was a Dog much in respect For doughty Deed : But now I must hing by the Neck Without Remeed . O fie , Sirs , for black burning Shame , Ye'll bring a Blunder on your Name ! Pray tell me wherein I'm to blame ? Is't in Effect , Because I'm Cripple , Auld and Lame ? Quo' bony Heck . What great Feats I have done my Fell Within Clink of Kilrenny Bell , When I was Souple , Young and Fell But Fear or Dread , John Ness and Paterson can tell , whose Hearts may bleid . They'll witness that I was the Vier Of all the Dogs within the Shire , I'd run all day , and never tyre : but now my Neck It must be stretched for my Hire , quo' bonny Heck . How nimbly could I turn the Hare , Then serve myself , that was right fair ! For still it was my constant Care the Van to led . Now , what could sery Heck do more , sin kill liar dead ? At the King's-Muir , and Kelly-law , Where good stout Hares gang fast avua , So cleverly I did it Claw , with Pith and Speed : I bure the Bell before them a as clear's a Beid . I ran alike on a'kind Grounds , Yea in the midst of Ardry Whines , I grip't the Mackings be the Bun , or be the Neck : Where nathing could slay them but Guns , says bonny Heck . I Wily , Witty was , and Gash , With my old Felni Packy pash , Nae Man might anes buy me for Cash in some respect . Are they not then Confounded fash , that hang poor Heck ? I was a bardy Tyk and bald , Tho' my Beard's Grey , I'm not so old , Can any Man to me unfald , What is the Feid , To stane me ere I be well Cauld ? a cruel Deed ! Now Honesty was ay my Drift , And innocent and harmless Shift , A Kaill-pot-lid gently to lift , or Amry Sneck , Shame fa the Chafts , dare call that Thift , quo' bonny Heck . So well's I cou'd play Hocus Pocus And of the Servants make Jodocus , And this I did in every Locus throw their Neglect . And was not this a Merry Jocus quo' bonny Heck ? But now , good Sirs , this day is lost , The best Dog in the East Nook Coas For never ane durst Brag nor Boast me , for their Neck . But now I must yield up the Ghost , quo' bonny Heck . And put a perjod to my Talking , For I'm unto my Exit making : Sirs , you may a'gae to the Hawking , and there reflect , Ye'l ne'er get sick a Dog for Makin as bonny Heck . But if my Puppies ance were ready , Which I god on a bonny Lady : They'l be baith Cliver , Keen , and Beddy ; and ne'er neglect , To clink it like their ancient Daddy , the famous Heck . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 047 ) The last Dying Words of BONNY HECK A Famous Grey-Hound in the Shire of Fife . ALas , alas , quo' bonny Heck , On former days when I reflect ! I was a Dog much in respect For doughty Deed : But now I must hing by the Neck Without Remeed . O fie , Sirs , for black burning Shame , Ye'll bring a Blunder on your Name ! Pray tell me wherein I'm to blame ? Is't in Effect , Because I'm Cripple , Auld and Lame ? Quo' bony Heck . What great Feats I have done my Fell Within Clink of Kilrenny Bell , When I was Souple , Young and Fell But Fear or Dread , John Ness and Paterson can tell , whose Hearts may bleid . They'll witness that I was the Vier Of all the Dogs within the Shire , I'd run all day , and never tyre : but now my Neck It must be stretched for my Hire , quo' bonny Heck . How nimbly could I turn the Hare , Then serve myself , that was right fair ! For still it was my constant Care the Van to led . Now , what could sery Heck do more , sin kill liar dead ? At the King's-Muir , and Kelly-law , Where good stout Hares gang fast avua , So cleverly I did it Claw , with Pith and Speed : I bure the Bell before them a as clear's a Beid . I ran alike on a'kind Grounds , Yea in the midst of Ardry Whines , I grip't the Mackings be the Bun , or be the Neck : Where nathing could slay them but Guns , says bonny Heck . I Wily , Witty was , and Gash , With my old Felni Packy pash , Nae Man might anes buy me for Cash in some respect . Are they not then Confounded fash , that hang poor Heck ? I was a bardy Tyk and bald , Tho' my Beard's Grey , I'm not so old , Can any Man to me unfald , What is the Feid , To stane me ere I be well Cauld ? a cruel Deed ! Now Honesty was ay my Drift , And innocent and harmless Shift , A Kaill-pot-lid gently to lift , or Amry Sneck , Shame fa the Chafts , dare call that Thift , quo' bonny Heck . So well's I cou'd play Hocus Pocus And of the Servants make Jodocus , And this I did in every Locus throw their Neglect . And was not this a Merry Jocus quo' bonny Heck ? But now , good Sirs , this day is lost , The best Dog in the East Nook Coas For never ane durst Brag nor Boast me , for their Neck . But now I must yield up the Ghost , quo' bonny Heck . And put a perjod to my Talking , For I'm unto my Exit making : Sirs , you may a'gae to the Hawking , and there reflect , Ye'l ne'er get sick a Dog for Makin as bonny Heck . But if my Puppies ance were ready , Which I god on a bonny Lady : They'l be baith Cliver , Keen , and Beddy ; and ne'er neglect , To clink it like their ancient Daddy , the famous Heck . FINIS . 