C : RB . I.262 ( 060 ) The Ladies of London's Petition . OR Their humble Address to the Parliament of old Women for Husbands , signed by threescore thousand hands , and never a Cracked Maidenhead nor Widow among them all . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . YOU Matrons all , with humble Submission we bring our Petition : For Justice we call pray hear our Complaint tO For the good Marriage state Is so run down of late by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty Young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears , because he conjectures , the loud Curtain Lectures , Will ring through his Ears , both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'l roar , with a noise ten times more and bottles and wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second won't wed for fear that his Beauty , should stray from her Duty And grafted on his head a large pair of Horns : Yet he will have in store Twenty Harlits and more : is this not a shame , To spend Youth and Yreasure , To spend Youth and Treasure with Girls of the Game . Another replies he can't hear the bawling , the whinning and squailing And terrible cries of Children when young , Why the fourth cries a wife , will destroy a Man's Life , and waste him away . These are their Excuses , These are their Excuses , for longer delay : But yet let them know that Ladies of pleasure are wasters of treasure , They'l bring a Man low that follows the spor [ tO ] , Nay the Doctor may hap , For the curing the Clap , to pillage his Purse , Of more than would pay for Of more than would pay fos three Children at Nurse . Be pleased to debate our Case with discretion , its worse than oppression , To live at this rate , and spin out our days ; Let and Act now be made . That a Fine shall be paid by Men that refuse , To marry when twonty , To marry when twentie , there's none we'l excuse . Is it not a shame , that here among Christians no Turks nor Philistians , But Persons of Fame and Learning also , That should wedlock deny , Which would yield a Supply the Land to defend From all that oppose us , From all that oppose us , or dare to contend . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 060 ) The Ladies of London's Petition . OR Their humble Address to the Parliament of old Women for Husbands , signed by threescore thousand hands , and never a Cracked Maidenhead nor Widow among them all . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . YOU Matrons all , with humble Submission we bring our Petition : For Justice we call pray hear our Complaint tO For the good Marriage state Is so run down of late by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty Young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears , because he conjectures , the loud Curtain Lectures , Will ring through his Ears , both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'l roar , with a noise ten times more and bottles and wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second won't wed for fear that his Beauty , should stray from her Duty And grafted on his head a large pair of Horns : Yet he will have in store Twenty Harlits and more : is this not a shame , To spend Youth and Yreasure , To spend Youth and Treasure with Girls of the Game . Another replies he can't hear the bawling , the whinning and squailing And terrible cries of Children when young , Why the fourth cries a wife , will destroy a Man's Life , and waste him away . These are their Excuses , These are their Excuses , for longer delay : But yet let them know that Ladies of pleasure are wasters of treasure , They'l bring a Man low that follows the spor [ tO ] , Nay the Doctor may hap , For the curing the Clap , to pillage his Purse , Of more than would pay for Of more than would pay fos three Children at Nurse . Be pleased to debate our Case with discretion , its worse than oppression , To live at this rate , and spin out our days ; Let and Act now be made . That a Fine shall be paid by Men that refuse , To marry when twonty , To marry when twentie , there's none we'l excuse . Is it not a shame , that here among Christians no Turks nor Philistians , But Persons of Fame and Learning also , That should wedlock deny , Which would yield a Supply the Land to defend From all that oppose us , From all that oppose us , or dare to contend . FINIS . 