C : RB . I.262 ( 065 ) Captain Johnstoun's last Farewell . YOY noble Lords of high Degree , that see my dismal Doom ; Have some Regard to pity me , who now , alas ! am come , To die and ignominious Death , as it does well appear ; While I declare with my last Breath , the Laws are most severe . In Scotland I was bred and born of noble Parents there : Good Education did adorn my Life I do declare : No Crime did e're my Conscience stain ; till I adventur'd here ? Thus have I Reason to complain , the Laws are most severe . In Flanders I the French have fac'd , and likewise in Ireland ; Still eagerly pursu'd the Chase , with valiant Heart and Hand : Why was I not in Battle slave , rather than suffer here , A Death which Mortals do disdain , the Laws are most severe . I did not Hurt nor Wrong indeed , I solemnly protest ; But merely for to serve my Friend , I granted his Request ; To free his Lady out of Thrall , his Joy and only Dear ; And now my Life must pay for all , the Laws are most severe . I coming from my Native Land , in this unhappy Time , Alas , I did not understand the Nature of the Crime ; Therefore I soon did condescend , as it does well appear ; And find therein I did offend , the Laws are most severe . In the same Lodging where I lay , and liv'd at Bed and Board ; My Landlord did my Life betray for Fifty Pounds Reward : Then being into Prison cast , although with Conscience clear , I was arraigned at the last , the Laws are most severe . The Lady would not hear my Moan , while dying Words I sent ; Her cruel Heart , more hard than Stone , would not the least relent ; But triumphing in my wretched State , as I did often here ; I fallen here by the Hand of Fate , the Laws are most severe . Will not my good and gracious King , be merciful to me ? Is there not in his Breast a Spring of Princely Clemency ? No not for me , alas I die ! the Hour is drawing near : To the last Minute I shall cry , The Laws are most severe . Farewell dear Country Men ( said he ) and this tumultuous Noise ; My Soul will soon transported be to more Celestial Joys : Tho' in the Blossom of my Youth , pale Death I do not fear : For to the last I'll speak the Truth , the Laws are most severe . Alas ! I have not long to live ; and therefore now ( said he ) All that wrong'd me , I them forgive , as GOD shall pardon me . My Landlord and his subtle Wife , I do forgive them here ; Farewell this transitory Life , the Laws are most severe . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 065 ) Captain Johnstoun's last Farewell . YOY noble Lords of high Degree , that see my dismal Doom ; Have some Regard to pity me , who now , alas ! am come , To die and ignominious Death , as it does well appear ; While I declare with my last Breath , the Laws are most severe . In Scotland I was bred and born of noble Parents there : Good Education did adorn my Life I do declare : No Crime did e're my Conscience stain ; till I adventur'd here ? Thus have I Reason to complain , the Laws are most severe . In Flanders I the French have fac'd , and likewise in Ireland ; Still eagerly pursu'd the Chase , with valiant Heart and Hand : Why was I not in Battle slave , rather than suffer here , A Death which Mortals do disdain , the Laws are most severe . I did not Hurt nor Wrong indeed , I solemnly protest ; But merely for to serve my Friend , I granted his Request ; To free his Lady out of Thrall , his Joy and only Dear ; And now my Life must pay for all , the Laws are most severe . I coming from my Native Land , in this unhappy Time , Alas , I did not understand the Nature of the Crime ; Therefore I soon did condescend , as it does well appear ; And find therein I did offend , the Laws are most severe . In the same Lodging where I lay , and liv'd at Bed and Board ; My Landlord did my Life betray for Fifty Pounds Reward : Then being into Prison cast , although with Conscience clear , I was arraigned at the last , the Laws are most severe . The Lady would not hear my Moan , while dying Words I sent ; Her cruel Heart , more hard than Stone , would not the least relent ; But triumphing in my wretched State , as I did often here ; I fallen here by the Hand of Fate , the Laws are most severe . Will not my good and gracious King , be merciful to me ? Is there not in his Breast a Spring of Princely Clemency ? No not for me , alas I die ! the Hour is drawing near : To the last Minute I shall cry , The Laws are most severe . Farewell dear Country Men ( said he ) and this tumultuous Noise ; My Soul will soon transported be to more Celestial Joys : Tho' in the Blossom of my Youth , pale Death I do not fear : For to the last I'll speak the Truth , the Laws are most severe . Alas ! I have not long to live ; and therefore now ( said he ) All that wrong'd me , I them forgive , as GOD shall pardon me . My Landlord and his subtle Wife , I do forgive them here ; Farewell this transitory Life , the Laws are most severe . FINIS . 