C : RB . I.262 ( 088 ) The Contract of Enster . ON July just upon the penult day , which is the second Month next to May . It is agreed and finally Contracted , and all the Parties living yet that spoke it , Between two Graceless Persons of Renown , None more Infamous dwelling in the Town , The one a silly Raggit Suitor Man , Servitor to Thomas Ferguson who can , Make Boots and Shoone , a Shoe maker to Craft , he lives above the Thieves hold in the last . The other she's no cast away nor Hiffie , but the good Daughter of old Andrew Bizie , Their parties both are finally content in one advice and Mutual consent , To Solemnize in every point and Jott , of Marriage the holy Band and knot , In Face and presence of the Hally Kirk , Because none of the two has will to work , And when they have no will to work you ken , it is high time that they were married then , To this effect the foresaid Andrew Bizie , has promised the Fellow with the Hiffie . And under mark and that to be well pay'd , yea and a ---- if that it be delayed , At Martinmass withouten longer tarry , or sooner if the parties please to Marry , And for the foresaid under mark and score , the silly Suitor is content therefore . That after the Death and the decease of his Wife , Andrew shall bruike the hail during his Life , And if he Chance to die as pleases God , the foresaid Suitor shall have all thats o'd . For more Assurance they are contented that their presents be Insert and Registrar , Into our Stubborn Lords Book o're the water . or Commissar Books of St Andrews with a clatter Or in the Books of Enster Easter or Waster , what Clerk in Fife can bind the Fellows faster , To have the Force and strength of and Decreet ; of either of the Judges they think meet , That Letters both of Doding and of Horning , may pass heron without all Let or Scorning . Their presents were written the foresaid day and year ; before their Witless Witnesses Witnessing here , John Jocobisty in the Shadow Shaw , and Peter Pickthank in the Paddock Raw And Symon Sidebags in the Slypan Stank , with Friar Fuck dock in the Prior Bank , With diverse others honest Men well kenned , except my self , when this Contract was Pen'd . Ita est ego Joannes Moravius Bublicus , in Premises re - quisi [ tu ] s , de mendato Dict. Thomae Ferguson & And - dreae B [ ? ] ssie , & reliquorum Personarum Contractan : Scr [ i - ] ere Nesc [ in ] n ut asseruere Testamentum bis meis [ Sig - ] no , & Subscription manualibus . John Jacobist , Witless . Peter Pickthank Witless : Friar Fuckdock , Witless : Symon Sidebags , Witless . I myself , Witless . C : RB . I.262 ( 088 ) The Contract of Enster . ON July just upon the penult day , which is the second Month next to May . It is agreed and finally Contracted , and all the Parties living yet that spoke it , Between two Graceless Persons of Renown , None more Infamous dwelling in the Town , The one a silly Raggit Suitor Man , Servitor to Thomas Ferguson who can , Make Boots and Shoone , a Shoe maker to Craft , he lives above the Thieves hold in the last . The other she's no cast away nor Hiffie , but the good Daughter of old Andrew Bizie , Their parties both are finally content in one advice and Mutual consent , To Solemnize in every point and Jott , of Marriage the holy Band and knot , In Face and presence of the Hally Kirk , Because none of the two has will to work , And when they have no will to work you ken , it is high time that they were married then , To this effect the foresaid Andrew Bizie , has promised the Fellow with the Hiffie . And under mark and that to be well pay'd , yea and a ---- if that it be delayed , At Martinmass withouten longer tarry , or sooner if the parties please to Marry , And for the foresaid under mark and score , the silly Suitor is content therefore . That after the Death and the decease of his Wife , Andrew shall bruike the hail during his Life , And if he Chance to die as pleases God , the foresaid Suitor shall have all thats o'd . For more Assurance they are contented that their presents be Insert and Registrar , Into our Stubborn Lords Book o're the water . or Commissar Books of St Andrews with a clatter Or in the Books of Enster Easter or Waster , what Clerk in Fife can bind the Fellows faster , To have the Force and strength of and Decreet ; of either of the Judges they think meet , That Letters both of Doding and of Horning , may pass heron without all Let or Scorning . Their presents were written the foresaid day and year ; before their Witless Witnesses Witnessing here , John Jocobisty in the Shadow Shaw , and Peter Pickthank in the Paddock Raw And Symon Sidebags in the Slypan Stank , with Friar Fuck dock in the Prior Bank , With diverse others honest Men well kenned , except my self , when this Contract was Pen'd . Ita est ego Joannes Moravius Bublicus , in Premises re - quisi [ tu ] s , de mendato Dict. Thomae Ferguson & And - dreae B [ ? ] ssie , & reliquorum Personarum Contractan : Scr [ i - ] ere Nesc [ in ] n ut asseruere Testamentum bis meis [ Sig - ] no , & Subscription manualibus . John Jacobist , Witless . Peter Pickthank Witless : Friar Fuckdock , Witless : Symon Sidebags , Witless . I myself , Witless . 