C : RB . I.262 ( 101 ) POVERTIES Coat turn'd by a Taylor in Hamilton To the Tune of Poultrane Poverty IT's now high time , good Sir , to let you see , What mischiefs I've sustain'd by poverty , Because you're now , your self within his danger , Being Hei to one , to whom he was no stranger : I mean you now fit in Mr. Thomas Seat , I pray kind Heav'n defend you from his Fate : For why , if his Malignant Stars you follow , You'l still be poor , but never a good Fellow . NEver was Creature plagued so , As I am with a ragged Knave : That follows me where e're I go : And will , I fear unto my Grave . Cursed Poverty that Tattered Rogue , Haunts me like a Revengeful Ghos Throu' Moor , throu' Dale , throu' Moss , throu' Bog , Through Inland and Maritime Coast . I could escape the Rav'nous Claws Or Messengers and all their Bans : I fear not much their Horns nor Laws , Nor their Enchanted Silver Wands . Indemnity in Ten Days , time Made me from these fierce Harpies free . But never give a moments safe , From my ill Genius Poverty . First time I saw his Graceless Face , Was in the Fourscore sixteen year : The Swinger gave me first the Chase , When Meall and Malt and all grew dear . 'Twas then the use of Physic ceas'd , Men need not purge to get a Stomach : For Langkail was a dainty feast , The chief of all our Cheer was Dramock , We seldom then paid Drunken Groats , Our Purse was wiser than our Heads , Instead of Barley , Peas and Groats ; Our pots was fill'd with Bishop weeds : In that ill time I kept and Inns , Which ever since I have Repented : Then was I broke both Head and Shins , And ne're again could be Cemented . For Malt was then both Dear and ill , Excise was double , that was worse : Lord Archibald's Soldiers drank my Ale , And for it paid me ne're a Corpse . These Left Hand Chances brought that Tike , Who boldly Swore that he would be My Comm'rade and do what I like , He ay since keeps me Company . Pox on his Snaking Snout , I think He'll drive me clean out of my Wits : I ne're can take my morning Drink , But down he at my Elbow Sits . Yet I on various methods thought , To free me from this Skellyton Fellow : But wit in a poor Noddle's nought , My Purse could not my projects follow . I try'd my Friends , but all in vain , From them I nought could get but Words Their Counsel could not ease my pain , My Foe car'd not for such blunt Swords . Then with the little Stock I had . I try'd my luck at Cards and Dice , Fortune like a Treacherous Jade , First led , then left me on the Ice . To Diligence I then apply'd , And Laboured both Night and Day : Hoping that way to find Remeed , Against my soar Plague Poverty . But all in vain , a Tailors Wage , Is but a simple groat a Day , Which to Consume , my craving Page , Each Moment found a ready way Each Peck of Meall was Twenty Shilling , Judge then if I could well maintain , Although I had been ne'er so willing , A Wife and three young Bairns at Hame . I know some reasonless Misers say , If rightly us'd it is eneugh : But let them Babble till they Die , A Groat a day's but a poor Pleugh . Sweet Honey from a nest of Wasps , We may as well expect to see : Or Nectar in the Mouth of Asps , As such a wage cure Poverty . I therefore to the Muses fled , And Justice of them did desire : 'Gainst this Tyrannous Rennegade , That Puddles me so in the Mire . But they reply'd , when we were Young By Kings and Princes we were woo'd : But now we are with Censures stung , And looked upon as Dotryfi'd . Some call us idle Gleckit Queans , Some say the hight will Crack our Brains Craft Reaps the Harvest , Wit but Gleans Contempt is all the Muses gains . Well ken I what they said was true , Yet their sweet Charms did so engage Me , that with them , I oft withdrew , When no Man knew but my Cursed Page . Had he been absent , I with them , Could have remain'd until my Death : And this Fantastic World Contemn , And all the bitter Sweets it hath . Yet Scotlands brave Marcellus came , From England to his Native place : And there Proclaim'd our Royal ANN , With great Solemnity and Grace . Whereon I drew some Rural Rhymes , Which he most Nobly did Reward ; And with the Image of King James , He beatrice this Rebels side so hard , That presently from me he flies , As swift as Clouds before the Sun : Golds Brightness dim'd this Night owls eyes And made him take his Heels and run . And while I kept this potent Charm , From all his Witchcrafts I was free : But he still bent to do me harm ; Found means to twine my Shield and me . Altho' himself durst not appear , Yet to my Creditors did go ; Who 'mongst them did my Armour share , And left me Naked to his Bloe : Who took th' Andvantage like a Coward , And bade me either Yield or Die : What can't be cur'd , must be endur'd , For I could neither Fight nor Fly . Yet Generous Ernock one Day spy'd , This Tyrant beatrice me Back and side : Base Coward ; look on a Man , he cry'd , Then with his Birky swing'd his side : At him he let two Lyons Lose , Which in a Trace did him surround : And gripped him by the Throat so close , That down he fell into a Found . He's Worried Dead , then did I think , Therefore some Comrade did invite : We Blythly did his Dregy Drink . But ah ! or e'er I wist , his Sp'rite With Ghostly looks star'd in my Face , And swore that it would be my Curse . Go where I will , it does me me chase And nev'r a plack leaves in my purse . Yet , then brave Mr. Crawfoord thought Upon a way this ill to cure : And he a Reverend Bishop brought , Who did ihis evil Sp'rit Conjure . At whose Command it Disappear'd . And if that Reverend Baldpate might With me have stay'd , he had Conjur'd Him to have ta'en his farewell Fligh But Church-Men , tho' they always Preach Up Charity unto the poor , Love better to take from the Rich , Than Men of Poverty to Cure . So this proud Prelate would not stay , Because I could not pay his Teind . Against my Will he went his way , And left me Struggling with the Fiend : 'Gainst whom I have no Weapons now , Wherewith that I may with him Cope , But to a Steep-hill , a Bold Brow , And to cheer up my Heart I'le hope , Could I above the Water once , Get up my head , then would I fight , I'd Beatrice this Gobline from his Sconce , And make him take his last Good Night . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 101 ) POVERTIES Coat turn'd by a Taylor in Hamilton To the Tune of Poultrane Poverty IT's now high time , good Sir , to let you see , What mischiefs I've sustain'd by poverty , Because you're now , your self within his danger , Being Hei to one , to whom he was no stranger : I mean you now fit in Mr. Thomas Seat , I pray kind Heav'n defend you from his Fate : For why , if his Malignant Stars you follow , You'l still be poor , but never a good Fellow . NEver was Creature plagued so , As I am with a ragged Knave : That follows me where e're I go : And will , I fear unto my Grave . Cursed Poverty that Tattered Rogue , Haunts me like a Revengeful Ghos Throu' Moor , throu' Dale , throu' Moss , throu' Bog , Through Inland and Maritime Coast . I could escape the Rav'nous Claws Or Messengers and all their Bans : I fear not much their Horns nor Laws , Nor their Enchanted Silver Wands . Indemnity in Ten Days , time Made me from these fierce Harpies free . But never give a moments safe , From my ill Genius Poverty . First time I saw his Graceless Face , Was in the Fourscore sixteen year : The Swinger gave me first the Chase , When Meall and Malt and all grew dear . 'Twas then the use of Physic ceas'd , Men need not purge to get a Stomach : For Langkail was a dainty feast , The chief of all our Cheer was Dramock , We seldom then paid Drunken Groats , Our Purse was wiser than our Heads , Instead of Barley , Peas and Groats ; Our pots was fill'd with Bishop weeds : In that ill time I kept and Inns , Which ever since I have Repented : Then was I broke both Head and Shins , And ne're again could be Cemented . For Malt was then both Dear and ill , Excise was double , that was worse : Lord Archibald's Soldiers drank my Ale , And for it paid me ne're a Corpse . These Left Hand Chances brought that Tike , Who boldly Swore that he would be My Comm'rade and do what I like , He ay since keeps me Company . Pox on his Snaking Snout , I think He'll drive me clean out of my Wits : I ne're can take my morning Drink , But down he at my Elbow Sits . Yet I on various methods thought , To free me from this Skellyton Fellow : But wit in a poor Noddle's nought , My Purse could not my projects follow . I try'd my Friends , but all in vain , From them I nought could get but Words Their Counsel could not ease my pain , My Foe car'd not for such blunt Swords . Then with the little Stock I had . I try'd my luck at Cards and Dice , Fortune like a Treacherous Jade , First led , then left me on the Ice . To Diligence I then apply'd , And Laboured both Night and Day : Hoping that way to find Remeed , Against my soar Plague Poverty . But all in vain , a Tailors Wage , Is but a simple groat a Day , Which to Consume , my craving Page , Each Moment found a ready way Each Peck of Meall was Twenty Shilling , Judge then if I could well maintain , Although I had been ne'er so willing , A Wife and three young Bairns at Hame . I know some reasonless Misers say , If rightly us'd it is eneugh : But let them Babble till they Die , A Groat a day's but a poor Pleugh . Sweet Honey from a nest of Wasps , We may as well expect to see : Or Nectar in the Mouth of Asps , As such a wage cure Poverty . I therefore to the Muses fled , And Justice of them did desire : 'Gainst this Tyrannous Rennegade , That Puddles me so in the Mire . But they reply'd , when we were Young By Kings and Princes we were woo'd : But now we are with Censures stung , And looked upon as Dotryfi'd . Some call us idle Gleckit Queans , Some say the hight will Crack our Brains Craft Reaps the Harvest , Wit but Gleans Contempt is all the Muses gains . Well ken I what they said was true , Yet their sweet Charms did so engage Me , that with them , I oft withdrew , When no Man knew but my Cursed Page . Had he been absent , I with them , Could have remain'd until my Death : And this Fantastic World Contemn , And all the bitter Sweets it hath . Yet Scotlands brave Marcellus came , From England to his Native place : And there Proclaim'd our Royal ANN , With great Solemnity and Grace . Whereon I drew some Rural Rhymes , Which he most Nobly did Reward ; And with the Image of King James , He beatrice this Rebels side so hard , That presently from me he flies , As swift as Clouds before the Sun : Golds Brightness dim'd this Night owls eyes And made him take his Heels and run . And while I kept this potent Charm , From all his Witchcrafts I was free : But he still bent to do me harm ; Found means to twine my Shield and me . Altho' himself durst not appear , Yet to my Creditors did go ; Who 'mongst them did my Armour share , And left me Naked to his Bloe : Who took th' Andvantage like a Coward , And bade me either Yield or Die : What can't be cur'd , must be endur'd , For I could neither Fight nor Fly . Yet Generous Ernock one Day spy'd , This Tyrant beatrice me Back and side : Base Coward ; look on a Man , he cry'd , Then with his Birky swing'd his side : At him he let two Lyons Lose , Which in a Trace did him surround : And gripped him by the Throat so close , That down he fell into a Found . He's Worried Dead , then did I think , Therefore some Comrade did invite : We Blythly did his Dregy Drink . But ah ! or e'er I wist , his Sp'rite With Ghostly looks star'd in my Face , And swore that it would be my Curse . Go where I will , it does me me chase And nev'r a plack leaves in my purse . Yet , then brave Mr. Crawfoord thought Upon a way this ill to cure : And he a Reverend Bishop brought , Who did ihis evil Sp'rit Conjure . At whose Command it Disappear'd . And if that Reverend Baldpate might With me have stay'd , he had Conjur'd Him to have ta'en his farewell Fligh But Church-Men , tho' they always Preach Up Charity unto the poor , Love better to take from the Rich , Than Men of Poverty to Cure . So this proud Prelate would not stay , Because I could not pay his Teind . Against my Will he went his way , And left me Struggling with the Fiend : 'Gainst whom I have no Weapons now , Wherewith that I may with him Cope , But to a Steep-hill , a Bold Brow , And to cheer up my Heart I'le hope , Could I above the Water once , Get up my head , then would I fight , I'd Beatrice this Gobline from his Sconce , And make him take his last Good Night . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 101 ) POVERTIES Coat turn'd by a Taylor in Hamilton To the Tune of Poultrane Poverty IT's now high time , good Sir , to let you see , What mischiefs I've sustain'd by poverty , Because you're now , your self within his danger , Being Hei to one , to whom he was no stranger : I mean you now fit in Mr. Thomas Seat , I pray kind Heav'n defend you from his Fate : For why , if his Malignant Stars you follow , You'l still be poor , but never a good Fellow . NEver was Creature plagued so , As I am with a ragged Knave : That follows me where e're I go : And will , I fear unto my Grave . Cursed Poverty that Tattered Rogue , Haunts me like a Revengeful Ghos Throu' Moor , throu' Dale , throu' Moss , throu' Bog , Through Inland and Maritime Coast . I could escape the Rav'nous Claws Or Messengers and all their Bans : I fear not much their Horns nor Laws , Nor their Enchanted Silver Wands . Indemnity in Ten Days , time Made me from these fierce Harpies free . But never give a moments safe , From my ill Genius Poverty . First time I saw his Graceless Face , Was in the Fourscore sixteen year : The Swinger gave me first the Chase , When Meall and Malt and all grew dear . 'Twas then the use of Physic ceas'd , Men need not purge to get a Stomach : For Langkail was a dainty feast , The chief of all our Cheer was Dramock , We seldom then paid Drunken Groats , Our Purse was wiser than our Heads , Instead of Barley , Peas and Groats ; Our pots was fill'd with Bishop weeds : In that ill time I kept and Inns , Which ever since I have Repented : Then was I broke both Head and Shins , And ne're again could be Cemented . For Malt was then both Dear and ill , Excise was double , that was worse : Lord Archibald's Soldiers drank my Ale , And for it paid me ne're a Corpse . These Left Hand Chances brought that Tike , Who boldly Swore that he would be My Comm'rade and do what I like , He ay since keeps me Company . Pox on his Snaking Snout , I think He'll drive me clean out of my Wits : I ne're can take my morning Drink , But down he at my Elbow Sits . Yet I on various methods thought , To free me from this Skellyton Fellow : But wit in a poor Noddle's nought , My Purse could not my projects follow . I try'd my Friends , but all in vain , From them I nought could get but Words Their Counsel could not ease my pain , My Foe car'd not for such blunt Swords . Then with the little Stock I had . I try'd my luck at Cards and Dice , Fortune like a Treacherous Jade , First led , then left me on the Ice . To Diligence I then apply'd , And Laboured both Night and Day : Hoping that way to find Remeed , Against my soar Plague Poverty . But all in vain , a Tailors Wage , Is but a simple groat a Day , Which to Consume , my craving Page , Each Moment found a ready way Each Peck of Meall was Twenty Shilling , Judge then if I could well maintain , Although I had been ne'er so willing , A Wife and three young Bairns at Hame . I know some reasonless Misers say , If rightly us'd it is eneugh : But let them Babble till they Die , A Groat a day's but a poor Pleugh . Sweet Honey from a nest of Wasps , We may as well expect to see : Or Nectar in the Mouth of Asps , As such a wage cure Poverty . I therefore to the Muses fled , And Justice of them did desire : 'Gainst this Tyrannous Rennegade , That Puddles me so in the Mire . But they reply'd , when we were Young By Kings and Princes we were woo'd : But now we are with Censures stung , And looked upon as Dotryfi'd . Some call us idle Gleckit Queans , Some say the hight will Crack our Brains Craft Reaps the Harvest , Wit but Gleans Contempt is all the Muses gains . Well ken I what they said was true , Yet their sweet Charms did so engage Me , that with them , I oft withdrew , When no Man knew but my Cursed Page . Had he been absent , I with them , Could have remain'd until my Death : And this Fantastic World Contemn , And all the bitter Sweets it hath . Yet Scotlands brave Marcellus came , From England to his Native place : And there Proclaim'd our Royal ANN , With great Solemnity and Grace . Whereon I drew some Rural Rhymes , Which he most Nobly did Reward ; And with the Image of King James , He beatrice this Rebels side so hard , That presently from me he flies , As swift as Clouds before the Sun : Golds Brightness dim'd this Night owls eyes And made him take his Heels and run . And while I kept this potent Charm , From all his Witchcrafts I was free : But he still bent to do me harm ; Found means to twine my Shield and me . Altho' himself durst not appear , Yet to my Creditors did go ; Who 'mongst them did my Armour share , And left me Naked to his Bloe : Who took th' Andvantage like a Coward , And bade me either Yield or Die : What can't be cur'd , must be endur'd , For I could neither Fight nor Fly . Yet Generous Ernock one Day spy'd , This Tyrant beatrice me Back and side : Base Coward ; look on a Man , he cry'd , Then with his Birky swing'd his side : At him he let two Lyons Lose , Which in a Trace did him surround : And gripped him by the Throat so close , That down he fell into a Found . He's Worried Dead , then did I think , Therefore some Comrade did invite : We Blythly did his Dregy Drink . But ah ! or e'er I wist , his Sp'rite With Ghostly looks star'd in my Face , And swore that it would be my Curse . Go where I will , it does me me chase And nev'r a plack leaves in my purse . Yet , then brave Mr. Crawfoord thought Upon a way this ill to cure : And he a Reverend Bishop brought , Who did ihis evil Sp'rit Conjure . At whose Command it Disappear'd . And if that Reverend Baldpate might With me have stay'd , he had Conjur'd Him to have ta'en his farewell Fligh But Church-Men , tho' they always Preach Up Charity unto the poor , Love better to take from the Rich , Than Men of Poverty to Cure . So this proud Prelate would not stay , Because I could not pay his Teind . Against my Will he went his way , And left me Struggling with the Fiend : 'Gainst whom I have no Weapons now , Wherewith that I may with him Cope , But to a Steep-hill , a Bold Brow , And to cheer up my Heart I'le hope , Could I above the Water once , Get up my head , then would I fight , I'd Beatrice this Gobline from his Sconce , And make him take his last Good Night . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 101 ) POVERTIES Coat turn'd by a Taylor in Hamilton To the Tune of Poultrane Poverty IT's now high time , good Sir , to let you see , What mischiefs I've sustain'd by poverty , Because you're now , your self within his danger , Being Hei to one , to whom he was no stranger : I mean you now fit in Mr. Thomas Seat , I pray kind Heav'n defend you from his Fate : For why , if his Malignant Stars you follow , You'l still be poor , but never a good Fellow . NEver was Creature plagued so , As I am with a ragged Knave : That follows me where e're I go : And will , I fear unto my Grave . Cursed Poverty that Tattered Rogue , Haunts me like a Revengeful Ghos Throu' Moor , throu' Dale , throu' Moss , throu' Bog , Through Inland and Maritime Coast . I could escape the Rav'nous Claws Or Messengers and all their Bans : I fear not much their Horns nor Laws , Nor their Enchanted Silver Wands . Indemnity in Ten Days , time Made me from these fierce Harpies free . But never give a moments safe , From my ill Genius Poverty . First time I saw his Graceless Face , Was in the Fourscore sixteen year : The Swinger gave me first the Chase , When Meall and Malt and all grew dear . 'Twas then the use of Physic ceas'd , Men need not purge to get a Stomach : For Langkail was a dainty feast , The chief of all our Cheer was Dramock , We seldom then paid Drunken Groats , Our Purse was wiser than our Heads , Instead of Barley , Peas and Groats ; Our pots was fill'd with Bishop weeds : In that ill time I kept and Inns , Which ever since I have Repented : Then was I broke both Head and Shins , And ne're again could be Cemented . For Malt was then both Dear and ill , Excise was double , that was worse : Lord Archibald's Soldiers drank my Ale , And for it paid me ne're a Corpse . These Left Hand Chances brought that Tike , Who boldly Swore that he would be My Comm'rade and do what I like , He ay since keeps me Company . Pox on his Snaking Snout , I think He'll drive me clean out of my Wits : I ne're can take my morning Drink , But down he at my Elbow Sits . Yet I on various methods thought , To free me from this Skellyton Fellow : But wit in a poor Noddle's nought , My Purse could not my projects follow . I try'd my Friends , but all in vain , From them I nought could get but Words Their Counsel could not ease my pain , My Foe car'd not for such blunt Swords . Then with the little Stock I had . I try'd my luck at Cards and Dice , Fortune like a Treacherous Jade , First led , then left me on the Ice . To Diligence I then apply'd , And Laboured both Night and Day : Hoping that way to find Remeed , Against my soar Plague Poverty . But all in vain , a Tailors Wage , Is but a simple groat a Day , Which to Consume , my craving Page , Each Moment found a ready way Each Peck of Meall was Twenty Shilling , Judge then if I could well maintain , Although I had been ne'er so willing , A Wife and three young Bairns at Hame . I know some reasonless Misers say , If rightly us'd it is eneugh : But let them Babble till they Die , A Groat a day's but a poor Pleugh . Sweet Honey from a nest of Wasps , We may as well expect to see : Or Nectar in the Mouth of Asps , As such a wage cure Poverty . I therefore to the Muses fled , And Justice of them did desire : 'Gainst this Tyrannous Rennegade , That Puddles me so in the Mire . But they reply'd , when we were Young By Kings and Princes we were woo'd : But now we are with Censures stung , And looked upon as Dotryfi'd . Some call us idle Gleckit Queans , Some say the hight will Crack our Brains Craft Reaps the Harvest , Wit but Gleans Contempt is all the Muses gains . Well ken I what they said was true , Yet their sweet Charms did so engage Me , that with them , I oft withdrew , When no Man knew but my Cursed Page . Had he been absent , I with them , Could have remain'd until my Death : And this Fantastic World Contemn , And all the bitter Sweets it hath . Yet Scotlands brave Marcellus came , From England to his Native place : And there Proclaim'd our Royal ANN , With great Solemnity and Grace . Whereon I drew some Rural Rhymes , Which he most Nobly did Reward ; And with the Image of King James , He beatrice this Rebels side so hard , That presently from me he flies , As swift as Clouds before the Sun : Golds Brightness dim'd this Night owls eyes And made him take his Heels and run . And while I kept this potent Charm , From all his Witchcrafts I was free : But he still bent to do me harm ; Found means to twine my Shield and me . Altho' himself durst not appear , Yet to my Creditors did go ; Who 'mongst them did my Armour share , And left me Naked to his Bloe : Who took th' Andvantage like a Coward , And bade me either Yield or Die : What can't be cur'd , must be endur'd , For I could neither Fight nor Fly . Yet Generous Ernock one Day spy'd , This Tyrant beatrice me Back and side : Base Coward ; look on a Man , he cry'd , Then with his Birky swing'd his side : At him he let two Lyons Lose , Which in a Trace did him surround : And gripped him by the Throat so close , That down he fell into a Found . He's Worried Dead , then did I think , Therefore some Comrade did invite : We Blythly did his Dregy Drink . But ah ! or e'er I wist , his Sp'rite With Ghostly looks star'd in my Face , And swore that it would be my Curse . Go where I will , it does me me chase And nev'r a plack leaves in my purse . Yet , then brave Mr. Crawfoord thought Upon a way this ill to cure : And he a Reverend Bishop brought , Who did ihis evil Sp'rit Conjure . At whose Command it Disappear'd . And if that Reverend Baldpate might With me have stay'd , he had Conjur'd Him to have ta'en his farewell Fligh But Church-Men , tho' they always Preach Up Charity unto the poor , Love better to take from the Rich , Than Men of Poverty to Cure . So this proud Prelate would not stay , Because I could not pay his Teind . Against my Will he went his way , And left me Struggling with the Fiend : 'Gainst whom I have no Weapons now , Wherewith that I may with him Cope , But to a Steep-hill , a Bold Brow , And to cheer up my Heart I'le hope , Could I above the Water once , Get up my head , then would I fight , I'd Beatrice this Gobline from his Sconce , And make him take his last Good Night . FINIS . 