C : RB . I.262 ( 074 ) A NEW SONG To the Tune of , Peggie I must love thee . The Words , by Mr. RAMONDON , Senior . I ADIEU , my Celia , O adieu ! Adieu my only Treasure ! I lost all Joy in losing you , Both Quiet , Hope and Pleasure . Like Freedom you my Heart possessed , Thou , only Charm , that ties i Thus we ne'er know , till void of Rest , How much we ought to prize it . II the Rural Deities prepare To entertain my Charmer . the blooming Buds perfume the Air , While Sol shines forth to warm her . Hark pretty Birds , that on the Wing , Or on the Trees a dancing ; 'Tis not the Season makes you sing , But Joy for her advancing . III . the feather'd Kind , with warbling Throats Express your Inclination ; And join with me , in moving Notes , To sing my ardent Passion . The Silver Streams their Channel leave , And Winds , as she is turning ; The River-Gods such Love receive , Their Floods can't quench their Burning IV. the Zephyres , in your Gales , declare My Sighs for her Returning ; And whisper gently , in her Ear , My Love and all my Mourning ; Tell her She's both my Pain and Bliss : But while you this discover , From her sweet Lips , Oh snatch a Kiss , And bring it to her Lover ! V. Your Charms a Loadstone to my Heart , Which steal and draw it to you . 'Tis endless Pain from you to part , But Pleasure to pursue you , 'Tis Heav'n and Light where you resort , And Darkness is your Absence . I think no Place can be a Court Without a Royal Presence . VI . As round a Flame a harmless Fly Is hovering and turning . Till kill'd by Hea just so am I , In your bright Beauty , burning , Oh let your kind Adorer live In Hope's of Rest enjoying ! 'Tis Godlike Peace and Life to give , What Merit's in destroying ? VII . Cou'd I but hope for a Return , My boundless Love to favour ; I'd be content for e'er to burn . Yet bless the Gods that gave her . Why flatter I myself with Hope's ? O cruel Time call'd Never ! My Joy a powerful Rival stops , And I must sighs forever . VIII . When drowning Men descry a Shore , Who are with Death surrounded ; Their Fear of Danger is no more , By Hope that Fear's confounded . So , when kind Fancy to my View Presents the wish'd-for Beauty ; My Fears are lost , my Hope's renew , And nought remains but Duty . IX . Return , return , my Life , my Rest , My All , that I admire : You Gods , to make me doubly blessed Her Heart's all I desire . O then , in moving Pity , bless My Hope's since I adore ! There may be he that loves you less , Not he that loves you more . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 074 ) A NEW SONG To the Tune of , Peggie I must love thee . The Words , by Mr. RAMONDON , Senior . I ADIEU , my Celia , O adieu ! Adieu my only Treasure ! I lost all Joy in losing you , Both Quiet , Hope and Pleasure . Like Freedom you my Heart possessed , Thou , only Charm , that ties i Thus we ne'er know , till void of Rest , How much we ought to prize it . II the Rural Deities prepare To entertain my Charmer . the blooming Buds perfume the Air , While Sol shines forth to warm her . Hark pretty Birds , that on the Wing , Or on the Trees a dancing ; 'Tis not the Season makes you sing , But Joy for her advancing . III . the feather'd Kind , with warbling Throats Express your Inclination ; And join with me , in moving Notes , To sing my ardent Passion . The Silver Streams their Channel leave , And Winds , as she is turning ; The River-Gods such Love receive , Their Floods can't quench their Burning IV. the Zephyres , in your Gales , declare My Sighs for her Returning ; And whisper gently , in her Ear , My Love and all my Mourning ; Tell her She's both my Pain and Bliss : But while you this discover , From her sweet Lips , Oh snatch a Kiss , And bring it to her Lover ! V. Your Charms a Loadstone to my Heart , Which steal and draw it to you . 'Tis endless Pain from you to part , But Pleasure to pursue you , 'Tis Heav'n and Light where you resort , And Darkness is your Absence . I think no Place can be a Court Without a Royal Presence . VI . As round a Flame a harmless Fly Is hovering and turning . Till kill'd by Hea just so am I , In your bright Beauty , burning , Oh let your kind Adorer live In Hope's of Rest enjoying ! 'Tis Godlike Peace and Life to give , What Merit's in destroying ? VII . Cou'd I but hope for a Return , My boundless Love to favour ; I'd be content for e'er to burn . Yet bless the Gods that gave her . Why flatter I myself with Hope's ? O cruel Time call'd Never ! My Joy a powerful Rival stops , And I must sighs forever . VIII . When drowning Men descry a Shore , Who are with Death surrounded ; Their Fear of Danger is no more , By Hope that Fear's confounded . So , when kind Fancy to my View Presents the wish'd-for Beauty ; My Fears are lost , my Hope's renew , And nought remains but Duty . IX . Return , return , my Life , my Rest , My All , that I admire : You Gods , to make me doubly blessed Her Heart's all I desire . O then , in moving Pity , bless My Hope's since I adore ! There may be he that loves you less , Not he that loves you more . FINIS . 