C : RB . I.262 ( 090 ) THE POOR CLIENT'S COMPLAINT Done out of BUCHANNAN . COlin by Promise being Oblig'd to pay , Me such a Sum , betwixt and such a day : I ask'd it ; he refus'd it ; I addressed Aulus the Lawyer : He reply'd , it's best To Sue him at the Law . I'le make him debtor ; Your Cause is good , there cannot be a better . Being thus advis'd away to Pete I trudge , Pray him , and pay him to bespeak the Judge : Engag'd thus far be't better be it worse I must proceed , and thus I do depurse . For Writing Summons , Signing , Signeting : With a read Plaster and a Paper Ring ; For Summoning the Principal , and then For Citing Witnesses to say Amen ; For Executions ( alias Indersations ) For Tabling , Calling with Continuations : Next for Consulting Aulus and his Man ; ( For he must be Consulted now and than ) For pleading in the Outter-house and Inner . From Ten to Twelve , then Aulus goes to Dinner : For Writing Bills , for reading them , for Answers More dubious then those of Necromancers . For Interlocutors , for little Acts. For large Decreets , and their as large Extracts : For Hornings , for discussing of Suspensions , Full Stuff'd with Lies and frivolous Pretensions : For Please your Lordship and such like Petitions , For raising and for serving Inhibitions . And for Comprysings , or Adjudications , For their Allowances for Registrations ; With many other Acts and Protestations , Which may be Summ'd up in one word Vexations . Then unexpectedly upon a small Defect alledg'd , Colin Reduces all : We to't again , and Aulus does disjoint The Process , and debates it Point by Point ; The Cause at length's Concluded , but not ended , This made me Wonder ! Aulus he pretended , Decreets must not be given out at Randum , But most abide a serious Avisandum . Conform to course of Roll ; when that will be Indeed I cannot tell , nor yet can he . Thus Aulus hath for Ten years space Extended The Plea , and further more I have Expended Vast Sums , to wit , for Washing , Lodging , Dyer , Yet seldom did I rest , or sleep in quiet . For Coal , for Candle , Paper , Pen , and Ink. And such like things , which truly one would think , Were unsignificant , but yet they're come In Ten Years space unto a pretty Sum. To Macers , Turn-keys , Agents , Catchpols , Petes , Servants , Sub-servants , petty Foggers , Cheats ; For Morning-drinks , Four-hours , half-Gills at Noon To fit their Stomach for the Fork & Spoon , To which they go , but I poor man mean while Slip quietly to the Earl of Murray's * Isle . * OldKirk We meet again at two , then to disgenst Their bellyful they'l have a Gill at least , Sometime a double One ; for Brandywine Can only end the War call'd intestine : For Mum , Sack , Claret , White-wine , Purl , Beer , Ale , ( One he would have it new , another stale ) Both must be pleas'd , for Pipes , Tobacco , Snuff , Tuist , Coffee , Tea , and a greasy Stuff Call'd Chocolate , Punch , Clarified Whey , With other Drinks , all which I duly pay : For Rolls , for Nackets , Roundabouts , Sour Kakes , For Cheshire-Cheese , fresh Butter , Cuckies , Bakes , For Paunches , Saucers , Sheepheads , Cheats , Plack-pyes , Lamb-legs , Lamb kirnels , and Lamb Privities . Skait , Lobsters , Oysters , Mussels , Wilks , Neats Tongues . One he for Leeks , Beer , and Red-herring songs . This must be had . and other does prefer Raw herring , Onions , Oil , Spice , Vinegar . Rare Composition ; and he's truly sorry It's not in Colpeppers Dispensatory : Fot Apples , Peers , Plumbs , Cherrys , Nuts Green-peas Dulce , Tangles , Purstain , Turnapes , Radishes , With fourty other Things , I have forgotten , And I'm a Villain if I pay'd them not . Moreover my Affairs at Home sustain Both the emergent Loss , and cessant Gain : Aulus himself terms this a double loss , And I call him and it , a triple Cross : By all these means my Expenses do surmount Near ten times , ten times Colin's first Account . And now e're that I wholly be bereft Of th' little Time and Money to me left , I'm at the length resolved thus to do , I'le shun my Debtor and Lawyer too : And after this I never will give credit Unto one Word , if either of them said i You'l ask which of the two I'ld rather shun , Aulus ; it's he , it's he hath me undone , I've Words from both , yet sad Experience tells , That Colin gives , but Aulus dearly sells . Th' unwary Reader thinks perhaps that I Have pen'd a Satire 'gainst the Faculty ; 'Gainst those who by their accurate Debates Maintain our Rights and settle our Estates ; Who do their very Lungs with pleading spend Us 'gainst Oppressors' Stiffly to defend A gross mistake , for I'lle be sworn I do Admire their parts and their profession too I wish that Law and Lawyers both may thrive ; And at the hight of Grander so arrive That in all good Men's Eyes they may appear Like Burnished Gold both beautiful and clear That this may be : ( and 'tis for this I pray ) Rust must be scour'd off , Cobwebs sweept away . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 090 ) THE POOR CLIENT'S COMPLAINT Done out of BUCHANNAN . COlin by Promise being Oblig'd to pay , Me such a Sum , betwixt and such a day : I ask'd it ; he refus'd it ; I addressed Aulus the Lawyer : He reply'd , it's best To Sue him at the Law . I'le make him debtor ; Your Cause is good , there cannot be a better . Being thus advis'd away to Pete I trudge , Pray him , and pay him to bespeak the Judge : Engag'd thus far be't better be it worse I must proceed , and thus I do depurse . For Writing Summons , Signing , Signeting : With a read Plaster and a Paper Ring ; For Summoning the Principal , and then For Citing Witnesses to say Amen ; For Executions ( alias Indersations ) For Tabling , Calling with Continuations : Next for Consulting Aulus and his Man ; ( For he must be Consulted now and than ) For pleading in the Outter-house and Inner . From Ten to Twelve , then Aulus goes to Dinner : For Writing Bills , for reading them , for Answers More dubious then those of Necromancers . For Interlocutors , for little Acts. For large Decreets , and their as large Extracts : For Hornings , for discussing of Suspensions , Full Stuff'd with Lies and frivolous Pretensions : For Please your Lordship and such like Petitions , For raising and for serving Inhibitions . And for Comprysings , or Adjudications , For their Allowances for Registrations ; With many other Acts and Protestations , Which may be Summ'd up in one word Vexations . Then unexpectedly upon a small Defect alledg'd , Colin Reduces all : We to't again , and Aulus does disjoint The Process , and debates it Point by Point ; The Cause at length's Concluded , but not ended , This made me Wonder ! Aulus he pretended , Decreets must not be given out at Randum , But most abide a serious Avisandum . Conform to course of Roll ; when that will be Indeed I cannot tell , nor yet can he . Thus Aulus hath for Ten years space Extended The Plea , and further more I have Expended Vast Sums , to wit , for Washing , Lodging , Dyer , Yet seldom did I rest , or sleep in quiet . For Coal , for Candle , Paper , Pen , and Ink. And such like things , which truly one would think , Were unsignificant , but yet they're come In Ten Years space unto a pretty Sum. To Macers , Turn-keys , Agents , Catchpols , Petes , Servants , Sub-servants , petty Foggers , Cheats ; For Morning-drinks , Four-hours , half-Gills at Noon To fit their Stomach for the Fork & Spoon , To which they go , but I poor man mean while Slip quietly to the Earl of Murray's * Isle . * OldKirk We meet again at two , then to disgenst Their bellyful they'l have a Gill at least , Sometime a double One ; for Brandywine Can only end the War call'd intestine : For Mum , Sack , Claret , White-wine , Purl , Beer , Ale , ( One he would have it new , another stale ) Both must be pleas'd , for Pipes , Tobacco , Snuff , Tuist , Coffee , Tea , and a greasy Stuff Call'd Chocolate , Punch , Clarified Whey , With other Drinks , all which I duly pay : For Rolls , for Nackets , Roundabouts , Sour Kakes , For Cheshire-Cheese , fresh Butter , Cuckies , Bakes , For Paunches , Saucers , Sheepheads , Cheats , Plack-pyes , Lamb-legs , Lamb kirnels , and Lamb Privities . Skait , Lobsters , Oysters , Mussels , Wilks , Neats Tongues . One he for Leeks , Beer , and Red-herring songs . This must be had . and other does prefer Raw herring , Onions , Oil , Spice , Vinegar . Rare Composition ; and he's truly sorry It's not in Colpeppers Dispensatory : Fot Apples , Peers , Plumbs , Cherrys , Nuts Green-peas Dulce , Tangles , Purstain , Turnapes , Radishes , With fourty other Things , I have forgotten , And I'm a Villain if I pay'd them not . Moreover my Affairs at Home sustain Both the emergent Loss , and cessant Gain : Aulus himself terms this a double loss , And I call him and it , a triple Cross : By all these means my Expenses do surmount Near ten times , ten times Colin's first Account . And now e're that I wholly be bereft Of th' little Time and Money to me left , I'm at the length resolved thus to do , I'le shun my Debtor and Lawyer too : And after this I never will give credit Unto one Word , if either of them said i You'l ask which of the two I'ld rather shun , Aulus ; it's he , it's he hath me undone , I've Words from both , yet sad Experience tells , That Colin gives , but Aulus dearly sells . Th' unwary Reader thinks perhaps that I Have pen'd a Satire 'gainst the Faculty ; 'Gainst those who by their accurate Debates Maintain our Rights and settle our Estates ; Who do their very Lungs with pleading spend Us 'gainst Oppressors' Stiffly to defend A gross mistake , for I'lle be sworn I do Admire their parts and their profession too I wish that Law and Lawyers both may thrive ; And at the hight of Grander so arrive That in all good Men's Eyes they may appear Like Burnished Gold both beautiful and clear That this may be : ( and 'tis for this I pray ) Rust must be scour'd off , Cobwebs sweept away . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 090 ) THE POOR CLIENT'S COMPLAINT Done out of BUCHANNAN . COlin by Promise being Oblig'd to pay , Me such a Sum , betwixt and such a day : I ask'd it ; he refus'd it ; I addressed Aulus the Lawyer : He reply'd , it's best To Sue him at the Law . I'le make him debtor ; Your Cause is good , there cannot be a better . Being thus advis'd away to Pete I trudge , Pray him , and pay him to bespeak the Judge : Engag'd thus far be't better be it worse I must proceed , and thus I do depurse . For Writing Summons , Signing , Signeting : With a read Plaster and a Paper Ring ; For Summoning the Principal , and then For Citing Witnesses to say Amen ; For Executions ( alias Indersations ) For Tabling , Calling with Continuations : Next for Consulting Aulus and his Man ; ( For he must be Consulted now and than ) For pleading in the Outter-house and Inner . From Ten to Twelve , then Aulus goes to Dinner : For Writing Bills , for reading them , for Answers More dubious then those of Necromancers . For Interlocutors , for little Acts. For large Decreets , and their as large Extracts : For Hornings , for discussing of Suspensions , Full Stuff'd with Lies and frivolous Pretensions : For Please your Lordship and such like Petitions , For raising and for serving Inhibitions . And for Comprysings , or Adjudications , For their Allowances for Registrations ; With many other Acts and Protestations , Which may be Summ'd up in one word Vexations . Then unexpectedly upon a small Defect alledg'd , Colin Reduces all : We to't again , and Aulus does disjoint The Process , and debates it Point by Point ; The Cause at length's Concluded , but not ended , This made me Wonder ! Aulus he pretended , Decreets must not be given out at Randum , But most abide a serious Avisandum . Conform to course of Roll ; when that will be Indeed I cannot tell , nor yet can he . Thus Aulus hath for Ten years space Extended The Plea , and further more I have Expended Vast Sums , to wit , for Washing , Lodging , Dyer , Yet seldom did I rest , or sleep in quiet . For Coal , for Candle , Paper , Pen , and Ink. And such like things , which truly one would think , Were unsignificant , but yet they're come In Ten Years space unto a pretty Sum. To Macers , Turn-keys , Agents , Catchpols , Petes , Servants , Sub-servants , petty Foggers , Cheats ; For Morning-drinks , Four-hours , half-Gills at Noon To fit their Stomach for the Fork & Spoon , To which they go , but I poor man mean while Slip quietly to the Earl of Murray's * Isle . * OldKirk We meet again at two , then to disgenst Their bellyful they'l have a Gill at least , Sometime a double One ; for Brandywine Can only end the War call'd intestine : For Mum , Sack , Claret , White-wine , Purl , Beer , Ale , ( One he would have it new , another stale ) Both must be pleas'd , for Pipes , Tobacco , Snuff , Tuist , Coffee , Tea , and a greasy Stuff Call'd Chocolate , Punch , Clarified Whey , With other Drinks , all which I duly pay : For Rolls , for Nackets , Roundabouts , Sour Kakes , For Cheshire-Cheese , fresh Butter , Cuckies , Bakes , For Paunches , Saucers , Sheepheads , Cheats , Plack-pyes , Lamb-legs , Lamb kirnels , and Lamb Privities . Skait , Lobsters , Oysters , Mussels , Wilks , Neats Tongues . One he for Leeks , Beer , and Red-herring songs . This must be had . and other does prefer Raw herring , Onions , Oil , Spice , Vinegar . Rare Composition ; and he's truly sorry It's not in Colpeppers Dispensatory : Fot Apples , Peers , Plumbs , Cherrys , Nuts Green-peas Dulce , Tangles , Purstain , Turnapes , Radishes , With fourty other Things , I have forgotten , And I'm a Villain if I pay'd them not . Moreover my Affairs at Home sustain Both the emergent Loss , and cessant Gain : Aulus himself terms this a double loss , And I call him and it , a triple Cross : By all these means my Expenses do surmount Near ten times , ten times Colin's first Account . And now e're that I wholly be bereft Of th' little Time and Money to me left , I'm at the length resolved thus to do , I'le shun my Debtor and Lawyer too : And after this I never will give credit Unto one Word , if either of them said i You'l ask which of the two I'ld rather shun , Aulus ; it's he , it's he hath me undone , I've Words from both , yet sad Experience tells , That Colin gives , but Aulus dearly sells . Th' unwary Reader thinks perhaps that I Have pen'd a Satire 'gainst the Faculty ; 'Gainst those who by their accurate Debates Maintain our Rights and settle our Estates ; Who do their very Lungs with pleading spend Us 'gainst Oppressors' Stiffly to defend A gross mistake , for I'lle be sworn I do Admire their parts and their profession too I wish that Law and Lawyers both may thrive ; And at the hight of Grander so arrive That in all good Men's Eyes they may appear Like Burnished Gold both beautiful and clear That this may be : ( and 'tis for this I pray ) Rust must be scour'd off , Cobwebs sweept away . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 090 ) THE POOR CLIENT'S COMPLAINT Done out of BUCHANNAN . COlin by Promise being Oblig'd to pay , Me such a Sum , betwixt and such a day : I ask'd it ; he refus'd it ; I addressed Aulus the Lawyer : He reply'd , it's best To Sue him at the Law . I'le make him debtor ; Your Cause is good , there cannot be a better . Being thus advis'd away to Pete I trudge , Pray him , and pay him to bespeak the Judge : Engag'd thus far be't better be it worse I must proceed , and thus I do depurse . For Writing Summons , Signing , Signeting : With a read Plaster and a Paper Ring ; For Summoning the Principal , and then For Citing Witnesses to say Amen ; For Executions ( alias Indersations ) For Tabling , Calling with Continuations : Next for Consulting Aulus and his Man ; ( For he must be Consulted now and than ) For pleading in the Outter-house and Inner . From Ten to Twelve , then Aulus goes to Dinner : For Writing Bills , for reading them , for Answers More dubious then those of Necromancers . For Interlocutors , for little Acts. For large Decreets , and their as large Extracts : For Hornings , for discussing of Suspensions , Full Stuff'd with Lies and frivolous Pretensions : For Please your Lordship and such like Petitions , For raising and for serving Inhibitions . And for Comprysings , or Adjudications , For their Allowances for Registrations ; With many other Acts and Protestations , Which may be Summ'd up in one word Vexations . Then unexpectedly upon a small Defect alledg'd , Colin Reduces all : We to't again , and Aulus does disjoint The Process , and debates it Point by Point ; The Cause at length's Concluded , but not ended , This made me Wonder ! Aulus he pretended , Decreets must not be given out at Randum , But most abide a serious Avisandum . Conform to course of Roll ; when that will be Indeed I cannot tell , nor yet can he . Thus Aulus hath for Ten years space Extended The Plea , and further more I have Expended Vast Sums , to wit , for Washing , Lodging , Dyer , Yet seldom did I rest , or sleep in quiet . For Coal , for Candle , Paper , Pen , and Ink. And such like things , which truly one would think , Were unsignificant , but yet they're come In Ten Years space unto a pretty Sum. To Macers , Turn-keys , Agents , Catchpols , Petes , Servants , Sub-servants , petty Foggers , Cheats ; For Morning-drinks , Four-hours , half-Gills at Noon To fit their Stomach for the Fork & Spoon , To which they go , but I poor man mean while Slip quietly to the Earl of Murray's * Isle . * OldKirk We meet again at two , then to disgenst Their bellyful they'l have a Gill at least , Sometime a double One ; for Brandywine Can only end the War call'd intestine : For Mum , Sack , Claret , White-wine , Purl , Beer , Ale , ( One he would have it new , another stale ) Both must be pleas'd , for Pipes , Tobacco , Snuff , Tuist , Coffee , Tea , and a greasy Stuff Call'd Chocolate , Punch , Clarified Whey , With other Drinks , all which I duly pay : For Rolls , for Nackets , Roundabouts , Sour Kakes , For Cheshire-Cheese , fresh Butter , Cuckies , Bakes , For Paunches , Saucers , Sheepheads , Cheats , Plack-pyes , Lamb-legs , Lamb kirnels , and Lamb Privities . Skait , Lobsters , Oysters , Mussels , Wilks , Neats Tongues . One he for Leeks , Beer , and Red-herring songs . This must be had . and other does prefer Raw herring , Onions , Oil , Spice , Vinegar . Rare Composition ; and he's truly sorry It's not in Colpeppers Dispensatory : Fot Apples , Peers , Plumbs , Cherrys , Nuts Green-peas Dulce , Tangles , Purstain , Turnapes , Radishes , With fourty other Things , I have forgotten , And I'm a Villain if I pay'd them not . Moreover my Affairs at Home sustain Both the emergent Loss , and cessant Gain : Aulus himself terms this a double loss , And I call him and it , a triple Cross : By all these means my Expenses do surmount Near ten times , ten times Colin's first Account . And now e're that I wholly be bereft Of th' little Time and Money to me left , I'm at the length resolved thus to do , I'le shun my Debtor and Lawyer too : And after this I never will give credit Unto one Word , if either of them said i You'l ask which of the two I'ld rather shun , Aulus ; it's he , it's he hath me undone , I've Words from both , yet sad Experience tells , That Colin gives , but Aulus dearly sells . Th' unwary Reader thinks perhaps that I Have pen'd a Satire 'gainst the Faculty ; 'Gainst those who by their accurate Debates Maintain our Rights and settle our Estates ; Who do their very Lungs with pleading spend Us 'gainst Oppressors' Stiffly to defend A gross mistake , for I'lle be sworn I do Admire their parts and their profession too I wish that Law and Lawyers both may thrive ; And at the hight of Grander so arrive That in all good Men's Eyes they may appear Like Burnished Gold both beautiful and clear That this may be : ( and 'tis for this I pray ) Rust must be scour'd off , Cobwebs sweept away . FINIS . 