The amorous Lady's GARLAND , Showing how a young Lady going with her maid to St. James's Market fell in Love with a young butcher , who desir'd him to walk with her into St. James's Park , after some discourse they both agreed to be married the next morning . YOung men & pretty maidens , be pleas'd to lend and ear , 'Tis of a charming Lady , that lov'd a young man dear ; She was a merchant's daughter , of beauty fair and clear ; And he a pretty butcher , this Lady lov'd him dear . As through St. James's Market , this Lady she did go , She spy'd this charming butcher , attir'd like a beau ; Young cupid let his arrow fly , while gazing thus she stood , The butcher being brisk and gay , and in a merry mood . He took her by the charming hand , saying Lady what dy'e buy , The best of ware I hear have god , the Lady did reply , The meat you have is fresh & good and charming to behold ; But something else i'd have , if I could purchase it with gold . What is it pretty Lady , I pray now let me hear , Alth' my Ware is so good , it is not very dear ; The Lady smil'd to hear him thus merrily to talk , And so into St. James's Park , this couple strait did walk . And to break her troubled mind , the Lady did begin ; Kind sir I hope you'll pardon me , for love's tormenting sting , Has pierc'd my heart in twain , 'tis you that I adore ; I am a merchant's daughter bright , i've gold and silver store . And can'st thou love a butcher , thou charming Lady bright , Oh God's ! that brought this lovely creature this day unto my sighed Unite us both with happiness , let me enjoy the fair : Sweet Lady come into my arms , and never more despair . With that I did presume to kiss her ruby lips so sweet , And then we promis'd each other , next morning for to meet ; According to our promises , it likewise was perform'd , And with the happy nuptual writer this Lady was adorn'd . She had a trusty servant , which all the matter knew , Who solemnly protested , to us she would be true : And in the dead time of the night , she brought me to my dear , To revel in the bay of love , with my own charming fair . We kept the matter secret , till twenty weeks was pas My lovely creature did begin to thicken in the ways Her mother quickly spy'd the same and told her husband dear , Saying alas ! she is with child , my jewel I do fear . So sending for their daughter , they thus to her did say , Tell us with whom you have been fooling , daughter dear I pray ; For I perceive you are with child , let not the father know , We'll make him curse the very time he serv'd our daughter so . My maid and I to Market went , to them she did reply ; You bid me buy the best of meat , you cannot it deny ; There was a youthful butcher . I like his Ware so well , Of it I made a hearty meal , which made my belly swell . You are a pretty Lady , her father then did say , And as for Mistress Betty , come quit my service pray ; But first go fetch the butcher , e'er i'll your wages pay , I'll make the rogue to marry her , so Betty went her way . And going to the butcher , she unto him did say , Come lay aside your knife & steel , this minute come away , And answer for the deed you've done my master he does swear He'll make you for to marry my charming Lady fair . He soon came to her father , the old man thus began , I pray what sort of meat was that , you sold my daughter , when You made her belly thus to swell , in such a dismal sort , Indeed young man it was not well , and you shall suffer for't . Here take the harlot quite away , and marry her with speed , One farthing of her portion she shall not have indeed ; Why then I will not have her , the butcher did reply , With that the Lady hung her head , and bitterly did cry . So then the mother she did say , dear husband now i pray , We would give her , her portion if that she marry'd were ; No , I will have the money down e'er I to Church do go , The old man sigh'd & shook his head well , since it must be so . Seven thousand pounds i'll give her but thus it shall be done , The Minister he shall come hear , 'fear You away shall run ; He having god the money , he fell upon his knees , Likewise the Youthful Lady , saying , father if You please . To grant us both Your blessing , for we've already Wed , Her aged parents wept for joy , their grief soon vanished ; He blessed his son and daughter , saying , rise my children dear ; And strait he settled on them both five hundred pounds a Year . Now Lovers all , you plainly see , what cupid can do , There's nothing like the Lovers that constant are and true ; Blame not my charming creature , because she courted me , This being Leap-year , the maidens fair to court indeed are free . LONDON : Printed and Sold by L. How , in Petticoat-Lane The amorous Lady's GARLAND , Showing how a young Lady going with her maid to St. James's Market fell in Love with a young butcher , who desir'd him to walk with her into St. James's Park , after some discourse they both agreed to be married the next morning . YOung men & pretty maidens , be pleas'd to lend and ear , 'Tis of a charming Lady , that lov'd a young man dear ; She was a merchant's daughter , of beauty fair and clear ; And he a pretty butcher , this Lady lov'd him dear . As through St. James's Market , this Lady she did go , She spy'd this charming butcher , attir'd like a beau ; Young cupid let his arrow fly , while gazing thus she stood , The butcher being brisk and gay , and in a merry mood . He took her by the charming hand , saying Lady what dy'e buy , The best of ware I hear have god , the Lady did reply , The meat you have is fresh & good and charming to behold ; But something else i'd have , if I could purchase it with gold . What is it pretty Lady , I pray now let me hear , Alth' my Ware is so good , it is not very dear ; The Lady smil'd to hear him thus merrily to talk , And so into St. James's Park , this couple strait did walk . And to break her troubled mind , the Lady did begin ; Kind sir I hope you'll pardon me , for love's tormenting sting , Has pierc'd my heart in twain , 'tis you that I adore ; I am a merchant's daughter bright , i've gold and silver store . And can'st thou love a butcher , thou charming Lady bright , Oh God's ! that brought this lovely creature this day unto my sighed Unite us both with happiness , let me enjoy the fair : Sweet Lady come into my arms , and never more despair . With that I did presume to kiss her ruby lips so sweet , And then we promis'd each other , next morning for to meet ; According to our promises , it likewise was perform'd , And with the happy nuptual writer this Lady was adorn'd . She had a trusty servant , which all the matter knew , Who solemnly protested , to us she would be true : And in the dead time of the night , she brought me to my dear , To revel in the bay of love , with my own charming fair . We kept the matter secret , till twenty weeks was pas My lovely creature did begin to thicken in the ways Her mother quickly spy'd the same and told her husband dear , Saying alas ! she is with child , my jewel I do fear . So sending for their daughter , they thus to her did say , Tell us with whom you have been fooling , daughter dear I pray ; For I perceive you are with child , let not the father know , We'll make him curse the very time he serv'd our daughter so . My maid and I to Market went , to them she did reply ; You bid me buy the best of meat , you cannot it deny ; There was a youthful butcher . I like his Ware so well , Of it I made a hearty meal , which made my belly swell . You are a pretty Lady , her father then did say , And as for Mistress Betty , come quit my service pray ; But first go fetch the butcher , e'er i'll your wages pay , I'll make the rogue to marry her , so Betty went her way . And going to the butcher , she unto him did say , Come lay aside your knife & steel , this minute come away , And answer for the deed you've done my master he does swear He'll make you for to marry my charming Lady fair . He soon came to her father , the old man thus began , I pray what sort of meat was that , you sold my daughter , when You made her belly thus to swell , in such a dismal sort , Indeed young man it was not well , and you shall suffer for't . Here take the harlot quite away , and marry her with speed , One farthing of her portion she shall not have indeed ; Why then I will not have her , the butcher did reply , With that the Lady hung her head , and bitterly did cry . So then the mother she did say , dear husband now i pray , We would give her , her portion if that she marry'd were ; No , I will have the money down e'er I to Church do go , The old man sigh'd & shook his head well , since it must be so . Seven thousand pounds i'll give her but thus it shall be done , The Minister he shall come hear , 'fear You away shall run ; He having god the money , he fell upon his knees , Likewise the Youthful Lady , saying , father if You please . To grant us both Your blessing , for we've already Wed , Her aged parents wept for joy , their grief soon vanished ; He blessed his son and daughter , saying , rise my children dear ; And strait he settled on them both five hundred pounds a Year . Now Lovers all , you plainly see , what cupid can do , There's nothing like the Lovers that constant are and true ; Blame not my charming creature , because she courted me , This being Leap-year , the maidens fair to court indeed are free . LONDON : Printed and Sold by L. How , in Petticoat-Lane 