C : RB . I.262 ( 092 ) KILLYCHRANKIE To be sung with its own proper Tune . CLAVERS and his Highland men , came down upon the Raw then Who being stout gave many a Clout The Lads began to claw then , With Sword and Targets in their Hands , wherewith they were not slavum then And Clinkim Clankim on their Crowns the Lads began to claw then . 2 O're brink and Bank o're ditch and stank , her strake among them a then , The Butter Box god many knocks their Riggans pey'd for a then ; They god their pakes with sudden strikes , which to their grief they saw then And double dunis upon their Rumps , the lads began to fa then . 3 Her Skipped about , and leapt about her slang among them a then , The English blades god broken Heads , their Crowns her clave in twa then , The Durk and Door , made their last hour , such was their final fa then , They thought the Devil had been there that give them such a paw then . 4 Jack Presbyter and's Covenant , came Whigging up the Hill , then , Thought Highland Trews , would not refuse for to subscribe his Bill then , In Willies name , he thought na one would stop the Deed at a , then , But her nane tell Shock , with many knock , cry'd , Whirry Whiggs avua then , 5 Sir Hugh M [ c ] dow , with his Men true , came Skipping o're the Brink , then , The Hogan Dutch , that feared such , they bred a horrid stink , then , The True Mclean , his gate has gine , and came upon a raw , then None could withstand his heavy hand he strake with such a paw then , 6 O on oh Ri , o on oh Ri , why should we loose King James then , Oh rigen die , Oh rigen die ! her break all hims , Banes ; then Fure nish but stay a while ; to speak a word or twa , then , And take a strake upon him's neck , before him gang away , then , 7 Fie for shame him's twa for ane , and yet hers win the day , then , King James Read Coats should be hang'd up because they fled way , then , Had bent him's Brows like Highland Trews and made as long a stay , then , Her kept her'd King , that Sacred thing , and Willy had gone away , then . 8 Now Gentlemen and Caveleers ; come join with her nane fell , then ; For to root out the Dutch Recruit , and ding them down to Hell then We'll meet at anes for our King James ; and think it no great pain then To set him on his Royal Thron let each man have his ain then And ANSWER to KILLYCHRANKIE To be sung with the Tune of Killychrankie . YOU Highland men with Tongue and Pen what need you so to boast then , At Killichrankie what you won , it was unto your loss then , My Lord Dundee the best of you , into the Fields did fa then , And great Pitcurr , fell in a furr who could rot win avua then . , 2 And at Dunkel , right fast you fell , though you thought well to win then , But fie for shame I scarce can tell , how to the Hills you ran then . O Fur oh nish , but stay a while , to speak a word or twa then , With caket Trews , and heavy news , unto the Hills you draw then , 3 At Crombdel-hill , you god your fill , for you we did not spare then , To best your Bones till over the stones , you ran with Buttoks bore then , And many crak behind your back , sensyne we never saw then , Your Fools face hath litzle Grace , can do no good at a then ; 4 The Buchan Lairds like unto Cards , planted on Athole hills then ; Together came , to make a sham ; thinking to get their will then , At Aberdeen they did come in , but there they durst not stay then , Nor make attempt for fear that Hemp : at length their necks should draw then 5 From Aberdeen in haste they high ; unto Donoter , came then , Where Earl of Marchal then did lie , a Man of worthy fame then , And General Buchan did demand , his House that they might have there But he so bravely did defend , That they prov'd but like Knaves there . 6 They hois'd up sail , and turn'd their tail and straight towards the North then . And for to join to get some Coin , from the Earl of Seaforth then But he was wiser then they thought ; and never thinks to part fua , With what he god by his good lot , like Fools from thence their way gae . 7 Ther's Frenderets Lord , and Oliphant , and Duglass them all three there ; We have bereav'd them of their holds no more now they can do there And Davie Graham thinks meikle shame With the Earl of Dunkel then And turn-Coat Pet looks now to bleat himself he's like to hang then 8 Dumfermling drives hsi spur-galled Horse and Buchan whips with wand then , Cannon like a weary Corss follows up the Band then , My Lord Seaforth flies frae the North unto the Court to dwell there He's made a swear for many Year , he never will Rebel more . C : RB . I.262 ( 092 ) KILLYCHRANKIE To be sung with its own proper Tune . CLAVERS and his Highland men , came down upon the Raw then Who being stout gave many a Clout The Lads began to claw then , With Sword and Targets in their Hands , wherewith they were not slavum then And Clinkim Clankim on their Crowns the Lads began to claw then . 2 O're brink and Bank o're ditch and stank , her strake among them a then , The Butter Box god many knocks their Riggans pey'd for a then ; They god their pakes with sudden strikes , which to their grief they saw then And double dunis upon their Rumps , the lads began to fa then . 3 Her Skipped about , and leapt about her slang among them a then , The English blades god broken Heads , their Crowns her clave in twa then , The Durk and Door , made their last hour , such was their final fa then , They thought the Devil had been there that give them such a paw then . 4 Jack Presbyter and's Covenant , came Whigging up the Hill , then , Thought Highland Trews , would not refuse for to subscribe his Bill then , In Willies name , he thought na one would stop the Deed at a , then , But her nane tell Shock , with many knock , cry'd , Whirry Whiggs avua then , 5 Sir Hugh M [ c ] dow , with his Men true , came Skipping o're the Brink , then , The Hogan Dutch , that feared such , they bred a horrid stink , then , The True Mclean , his gate has gine , and came upon a raw , then None could withstand his heavy hand he strake with such a paw then , 6 O on oh Ri , o on oh Ri , why should we loose King James then , Oh rigen die , Oh rigen die ! her break all hims , Banes ; then Fure nish but stay a while ; to speak a word or twa , then , And take a strake upon him's neck , before him gang away , then , 7 Fie for shame him's twa for ane , and yet hers win the day , then , King James Read Coats should be hang'd up because they fled way , then , Had bent him's Brows like Highland Trews and made as long a stay , then , Her kept her'd King , that Sacred thing , and Willy had gone away , then . 8 Now Gentlemen and Caveleers ; come join with her nane fell , then ; For to root out the Dutch Recruit , and ding them down to Hell then We'll meet at anes for our King James ; and think it no great pain then To set him on his Royal Thron let each man have his ain then And ANSWER to KILLYCHRANKIE To be sung with the Tune of Killychrankie . YOU Highland men with Tongue and Pen what need you so to boast then , At Killichrankie what you won , it was unto your loss then , My Lord Dundee the best of you , into the Fields did fa then , And great Pitcurr , fell in a furr who could rot win avua then . , 2 And at Dunkel , right fast you fell , though you thought well to win then , But fie for shame I scarce can tell , how to the Hills you ran then . O Fur oh nish , but stay a while , to speak a word or twa then , With caket Trews , and heavy news , unto the Hills you draw then , 3 At Crombdel-hill , you god your fill , for you we did not spare then , To best your Bones till over the stones , you ran with Buttoks bore then , And many crak behind your back , sensyne we never saw then , Your Fools face hath litzle Grace , can do no good at a then ; 4 The Buchan Lairds like unto Cards , planted on Athole hills then ; Together came , to make a sham ; thinking to get their will then , At Aberdeen they did come in , but there they durst not stay then , Nor make attempt for fear that Hemp : at length their necks should draw then 5 From Aberdeen in haste they high ; unto Donoter , came then , Where Earl of Marchal then did lie , a Man of worthy fame then , And General Buchan did demand , his House that they might have there But he so bravely did defend , That they prov'd but like Knaves there . 6 They hois'd up sail , and turn'd their tail and straight towards the North then . And for to join to get some Coin , from the Earl of Seaforth then But he was wiser then they thought ; and never thinks to part fua , With what he god by his good lot , like Fools from thence their way gae . 7 Ther's Frenderets Lord , and Oliphant , and Duglass them all three there ; We have bereav'd them of their holds no more now they can do there And Davie Graham thinks meikle shame With the Earl of Dunkel then And turn-Coat Pet looks now to bleat himself he's like to hang then 8 Dumfermling drives hsi spur-galled Horse and Buchan whips with wand then , Cannon like a weary Corss follows up the Band then , My Lord Seaforth flies frae the North unto the Court to dwell there He's made a swear for many Year , he never will Rebel more . 