The Maids Complaint for want of a dill doul . This Girl long time hath in a sickness been , Which many maids do call the sickness green . I wish she may some comfort find , poor soul , And have her belly filled with a Dill doul . To a new tune , called , The Dill doul , or Women and Wine . YOungmen give ear to me a while , if you to merriment are inclin'd , And I'le tell you a story shall make you to smile , of late done by a womankind : As she went musing all alone I herd her to sighs to sob and make moan For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , ( quoth she ) I'm undone if I han't a dil doul . For I am a Maid , and a very good Maid , and sixteen years of age am I , And fain would I part with my Maidenhead , if any good fellow would with me lie : But none to me ever yet proffer'd such love , as to lie by my side and give me a shove With his dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , O happy were I if I had a dill doul . At night when I do go to bed thinking for to take my rest , Strange fancies comes into my head , I pray for that which I love bes For it is a comfort , and pleasure does bring to women that have such a pretty fine thing , Call'd a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , then happy were etc , Last week as I walked in the Strand , I met with my Sister , a handsome Lass , I kindly took her by the hand , this question of her I did ask , Whethe [ r ] she kept still a Maiden alone ? or whither her Maidenhead was fled & gone For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul ? O happy etc KInd Sister , quoth she , to tell you the truth , it has been gone this twelve months day , I freely gave it a handsome youth that us [ ? ] worser with me to sport and play : To grieve for the loss of it I never shall , for if I had ten thousand I would give them all For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul O all my delight is in a dill doul . She making this answer , I bid her adieu , and told her I could no longer stay , I let go her hand , and I strait left the Strand , and to Covent Garden I hasted away : Where lively young gallants do use to resort , to pick up young Lasses , & show 'um good sport With a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , yet none was so kind etc O would I'd a sweetheart as some maids have , that little knows how to pleasure a man , I'd keep him frolicsome , gallant and brave , and make as much on him as anyone can : Before that any good thing he should lack , I'd fell all my clothes & smock from my back For his dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul , then happy were etc Thus youngmen have I declared in brief the causes of my grief and woe , And if any of you will yield me relief , speak cheerfully to me , say ay or no : I live at the sign of the Cup and the Can , and I will be loving to any youngman For his dil doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , and all my delight etc Beside youngmen , I have store of money , good read Gold and Silver bright , And he shall be master of every penny that lies with me and yields me deligh For why , 'tother night I herd my dame Nancy declare how her Master did tickle her fancy With his dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , then what e're it cost me etc Then come to me my bonny Lad while I am in my prime I say , And take a good bargain while it is to be had , and do not linger your time away : This money you see makes many men rich , then come along rub on the place that does itch For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul , take all my money give me a dill doul . Printed for V. Wentbridg in Duck-Lane . The Maids Complaint for want of a dill doul . This Girl long time hath in a sickness been , Which many maids do call the sickness green . I wish she may some comfort find , poor soul , And have her belly filled with a Dill doul . To a new tune , called , The Dill doul , or Women and Wine . YOungmen give ear to me a while , if you to merriment are inclin'd , And I'le tell you a story shall make you to smile , of late done by a womankind : As she went musing all alone I herd her to sighs to sob and make moan For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , ( quoth she ) I'm undone if I han't a dil doul . For I am a Maid , and a very good Maid , and sixteen years of age am I , And fain would I part with my Maidenhead , if any good fellow would with me lie : But none to me ever yet proffer'd such love , as to lie by my side and give me a shove With his dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , O happy were I if I had a dill doul . At night when I do go to bed thinking for to take my rest , Strange fancies comes into my head , I pray for that which I love bes For it is a comfort , and pleasure does bring to women that have such a pretty fine thing , Call'd a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , then happy were etc , Last week as I walked in the Strand , I met with my Sister , a handsome Lass , I kindly took her by the hand , this question of her I did ask , Whethe [ r ] she kept still a Maiden alone ? or whither her Maidenhead was fled & gone For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul ? O happy etc KInd Sister , quoth she , to tell you the truth , it has been gone this twelve months day , I freely gave it a handsome youth that us [ ? ] worser with me to sport and play : To grieve for the loss of it I never shall , for if I had ten thousand I would give them all For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul O all my delight is in a dill doul . She making this answer , I bid her adieu , and told her I could no longer stay , I let go her hand , and I strait left the Strand , and to Covent Garden I hasted away : Where lively young gallants do use to resort , to pick up young Lasses , & show 'um good sport With a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , yet none was so kind etc O would I'd a sweetheart as some maids have , that little knows how to pleasure a man , I'd keep him frolicsome , gallant and brave , and make as much on him as anyone can : Before that any good thing he should lack , I'd fell all my clothes & smock from my back For his dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul , then happy were etc Thus youngmen have I declared in brief the causes of my grief and woe , And if any of you will yield me relief , speak cheerfully to me , say ay or no : I live at the sign of the Cup and the Can , and I will be loving to any youngman For his dil doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , and all my delight etc Beside youngmen , I have store of money , good read Gold and Silver bright , And he shall be master of every penny that lies with me and yields me deligh For why , 'tother night I herd my dame Nancy declare how her Master did tickle her fancy With his dill doul , dill doul , dill doul , doul , then what e're it cost me etc Then come to me my bonny Lad while I am in my prime I say , And take a good bargain while it is to be had , and do not linger your time away : This money you see makes many men rich , then come along rub on the place that does itch For a dill doul , dill doul , dill doul doul , take all my money give me a dill doul . Printed for V. Wentbridg in Duck-Lane . 