The Constant Lovers Mortal Mistake . While Phaons absence caus'd suspicion strange In her who wondered that his love should change , Her bloody knife a mortal blow did give her , Startled hereat he fell into the River , His dream was fatal while her deep suspicion Caus'd these poor souls to die in this condition . Tune of , Young Phaon . YOung Phaon sat upon the brink to view the silver stream , He overtaken was with sleep and fell into a dream . He then beheld a sighed most strange the like he ne'r did see . Phillis did stand with Knife in hand and thus complained she . Old wretched fate you now too late show me my misery , My Phaons gone so fair so young now for him I must die . Why was I robb'd and then she sobb'd of my delig [ h ] tful bliss , So soon that he could not give me one smile or parting kiss . While he did live he ne'r did give me cause to mourn or grieve , His life is fled and he is dead I perfectly believe . Therefore will I make haste and fly out of this world of pain , With him so sweet I fain would meet with him for to remain . While him I miss no pain like this no blessings can I meet , Had I but dy'd by his dear side death I had counted sweet , And therewithal she soon did fallen by wounding her fair breast , Oh! now quoth she I come to thee she shrick'd and went to rest . He herd this cry as she did die and thought it was her voice , Whom he did love all souls above in her he d [ i ] worser rejoice . He started then and strait fell in he never more was seen , Phillis he cried and then he dy'd was lost in that sweet stream . 'Tis sorrow great for to relate these constant lovers cross , Few in this woe [ r ] ld were ever whirled into so great a loss . Both terrified these Lovers died and ne'r were seen again , In vain did he lament while she was by her self thus slave . The second part to the same Tune . The great mistake that she did make because he did absent , This mischief caus'd , for when she paus'd on him she did lament . Despairing love did passion move which prov'd to be extreme , She gave death's wound while he was drowned nothing could them redeem . You happy lovers then beware that you do not miscarry , Perchance they may absent away whom you'd have always tarry , Then have a care and doubt despair and hug not discontent , When from you they do keep away they by themselves lament , In lovely Hymns and Stratagems they'r singing forth your praise , In hope's e're long there will belong to them a Crown of Bayes . For to adorn their not forlorn nor yet forsaken loves , When Himey comes with sugarplumbs they bill like Turtle Doves , And when they'r strange their links & Chains are stronger then before , For when they'r taken in them again they'r fast for evermore . Tho fallings out may breed some doubt count my assertion true , They do increase loves joys & peace and passion does renew , These are loves toys and lovers joys sometime to prove the heart , Such charms they breed that I indeed cannot to you impart . Their grieves don't last , love with a blast these seeming clouds disperse , But where or when they meet again their passion they rehearse . One sighs alone joyn'd with a groan more Penetrates the breast , Then twenty why in company they pass it as a jest , But secret tears tears produc'd by fears and none do them oppose , They work upon the melting one and prove their mortal foes . FINIS . LONDON . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger . The Constant Lovers Mortal Mistake . While Phaons absence caus'd suspicion strange In her who wondered that his love should change , Her bloody knife a mortal blow did give her , Startled hereat he fell into the River , His dream was fatal while her deep suspicion Caus'd these poor souls to die in this condition . Tune of , Young Phaon . YOung Phaon sat upon the brink to view the silver stream , He overtaken was with sleep and fell into a dream . He then beheld a sighed most strange the like he ne'r did see . Phillis did stand with Knife in hand and thus complained she . Old wretched fate you now too late show me my misery , My Phaons gone so fair so young now for him I must die . Why was I robb'd and then she sobb'd of my delig [ h ] tful bliss , So soon that he could not give me one smile or parting kiss . While he did live he ne'r did give me cause to mourn or grieve , His life is fled and he is dead I perfectly believe . Therefore will I make haste and fly out of this world of pain , With him so sweet I fain would meet with him for to remain . While him I miss no pain like this no blessings can I meet , Had I but dy'd by his dear side death I had counted sweet , And therewithal she soon did fallen by wounding her fair breast , Oh! now quoth she I come to thee she shrick'd and went to rest . He herd this cry as she did die and thought it was her voice , Whom he did love all souls above in her he d [ i ] worser rejoice . He started then and strait fell in he never more was seen , Phillis he cried and then he dy'd was lost in that sweet stream . 'Tis sorrow great for to relate these constant lovers cross , Few in this woe [ r ] ld were ever whirled into so great a loss . Both terrified these Lovers died and ne'r were seen again , In vain did he lament while she was by her self thus slave . The second part to the same Tune . The great mistake that she did make because he did absent , This mischief caus'd , for when she paus'd on him she did lament . Despairing love did passion move which prov'd to be extreme , She gave death's wound while he was drowned nothing could them redeem . You happy lovers then beware that you do not miscarry , Perchance they may absent away whom you'd have always tarry , Then have a care and doubt despair and hug not discontent , When from you they do keep away they by themselves lament , In lovely Hymns and Stratagems they'r singing forth your praise , In hope's e're long there will belong to them a Crown of Bayes . For to adorn their not forlorn nor yet forsaken loves , When Himey comes with sugarplumbs they bill like Turtle Doves , And when they'r strange their links & Chains are stronger then before , For when they'r taken in them again they'r fast for evermore . Tho fallings out may breed some doubt count my assertion true , They do increase loves joys & peace and passion does renew , These are loves toys and lovers joys sometime to prove the heart , Such charms they breed that I indeed cannot to you impart . Their grieves don't last , love with a blast these seeming clouds disperse , But where or when they meet again their passion they rehearse . One sighs alone joyn'd with a groan more Penetrates the breast , Then twenty why in company they pass it as a jest , But secret tears tears produc'd by fears and none do them oppose , They work upon the melting one and prove their mortal foes . FINIS . LONDON . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 