The London Ladies Vindication OF TOP-KNOTS : With the many Reasons that She shows for the Continuation of the same : As also proving Men to be as Proud as themselves . To the Tune of , Here I Love , there I Love : Or , the two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . YOung Women and Damsels that love to go fine , Come listen a while to this Ditty of mine ; In spite of all Poets , brave Girls , we will wear Our Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . I am a young Woman 'tis very well known , And I am resolv'd to make use of my own , In spite of all Poets , brave Girls we will wear A Tower and Topknot , with Powdered Hair . They talk of a Calf which was seen in our dress , Yet let us take Courage , Girls , nevertheless In spite of those Rumours , we'll constantly wear Rich Towers with Topknots , and Powdered Hair . We are not such Fools to believe what they say , 'Tis fit that young Women should go fine and gay , In spite of their Bugbears , brave Girls , let us wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . Were we to be Ruled by some sort of Men , We should go like Women of Fourscore and Ten , In spite of those Coxcombs , brave Girls we will wear Rich Towers and Topknots with Powdered Hair . Like Beautiful Angels we strive to appear , The Hearts of our Husbands in order to cheer ; Then what is the Reason that we may not wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair ? If we are the Pleasure and Joy of their Life , Pray when can they take more delight in a Wife , Then at the same time when rich Garments they wear , With Towers and Topknots , etc We see the young Misses and Jilts of the Town , Have six Stories high , as they walk up and down : Then pray tell me why should not honest Wives wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc If we an't as Fine and as Gaudy as they , Who knows but our Husbands might soon run astray ; Consider this Women , and still let us wear Our Towers and Topknots , etc It is but a Folly to tell us of Pride , While we have these Arguments still on our side ; As long as we live , we will flourishing wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Nay further I'll tell you the case it is thus , That all is not sav'd which is put in the Purse ; A Shop-keeper's Lady she utters much Ware , When dressed in her Topknots , etc What Man would not have his Wife richly Array'd , When as he well knows it enlarges his Trade : Come , come , I must tell you , 'tis fit we should wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Sometime when our Husbands are out of the way , Pray tell me what Huffing young Gallants will stay , If that a fine Delicate Wife was not there ? Then Heigh for the Topknots and Powdered Hair . Some youngmen may flout us , yet mark what I say , There's no Woman living now Prouder than they ; Observe but the many Knick-Knacks which they wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . Their Wigg , Watch , and Rapiers we daily behold , And Embroidered Waistcoats of Silver and Gold ; Likewise , Turn up Stockings , they consta [ n ] tly wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . If Pride be a since and a folly , why then Han't we a far better Example from Men ? If Gaudy Apparel those Gallants do wear , We will have our Topknots and Powdered Hair . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The London Ladies Vindication OF TOP-KNOTS : With the many Reasons that She shows for the Continuation of the same : As also proving Men to be as Proud as themselves . To the Tune of , Here I Love , there I Love : Or , the two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . YOung Women and Damsels that love to go fine , Come listen a while to this Ditty of mine ; In spite of all Poets , brave Girls , we will wear Our Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . I am a young Woman 'tis very well known , And I am resolv'd to make use of my own , In spite of all Poets , brave Girls we will wear A Tower and Topknot , with Powdered Hair . They talk of a Calf which was seen in our dress , Yet let us take Courage , Girls , nevertheless In spite of those Rumours , we'll constantly wear Rich Towers with Topknots , and Powdered Hair . We are not such Fools to believe what they say , 'Tis fit that young Women should go fine and gay , In spite of their Bugbears , brave Girls , let us wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . Were we to be Ruled by some sort of Men , We should go like Women of Fourscore and Ten , In spite of those Coxcombs , brave Girls we will wear Rich Towers and Topknots with Powdered Hair . Like Beautiful Angels we strive to appear , The Hearts of our Husbands in order to cheer ; Then what is the Reason that we may not wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair ? If we are the Pleasure and Joy of their Life , Pray when can they take more delight in a Wife , Then at the same time when rich Garments they wear , With Towers and Topknots , etc We see the young Misses and Jilts of the Town , Have six Stories high , as they walk up and down : Then pray tell me why should not honest Wives wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc If we an't as Fine and as Gaudy as they , Who knows but our Husbands might soon run astray ; Consider this Women , and still let us wear Our Towers and Topknots , etc It is but a Folly to tell us of Pride , While we have these Arguments still on our side ; As long as we live , we will flourishing wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Nay further I'll tell you the case it is thus , That all is not sav'd which is put in the Purse ; A Shop-keeper's Lady she utters much Ware , When dressed in her Topknots , etc What Man would not have his Wife richly Array'd , When as he well knows it enlarges his Trade : Come , come , I must tell you , 'tis fit we should wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Sometime when our Husbands are out of the way , Pray tell me what Huffing young Gallants will stay , If that a fine Delicate Wife was not there ? Then Heigh for the Topknots and Powdered Hair . Some youngmen may flout us , yet mark what I say , There's no Woman living now Prouder than they ; Observe but the many Knick-Knacks which they wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . Their Wigg , Watch , and Rapiers we daily behold , And Embroidered Waistcoats of Silver and Gold ; Likewise , Turn up Stockings , they consta [ n ] tly wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . If Pride be a since and a folly , why then Han't we a far better Example from Men ? If Gaudy Apparel those Gallants do wear , We will have our Topknots and Powdered Hair . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Young Jemmy , OR , The Princely Shepherd . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Song . In blessed Arcadia , where each Shepherd feeds His numerous Flocks , and tunes on slender Reeds ; His song of Love , while the fair nymphs trip round , The chief among 'um was young Jemmy found : For he with glances could enslave each heart ; But found Ambition made him to depart The Fields to Court , led on by such as sought To blast his Virtues which much sorrow brought To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune . Or , In January last , Or , The Gowlin . YOung Jemmy was a Lad , of Royal birth and Breeding : With every Beauty clad , and every Swain exceeding . A face and shape so wondrous fine , so charming every par That every Lass upon the Green , for Jemmy had a heart . In Jemmy's powerful Eyes young Gods of Love are playing , And on his face there lies a thousand smiles betraying : But Oh he dances with a grace , none like him e're was seen : No God that ever fancied was , had so divine a meen . To Jemmy every Swain did lowly deft his Bonne And every Lass did strain , to praise him in her Son The pride of all the Youths he was , the Glory of the Groves : The pleasure of each tender Lass , and theme of all their Loves . BUt O unlucky fate , ah Curse upon Ambition : The busy Fops of State , have ruin'd his condition : For glittering hope he left his shade , his glorious hours are gone : By flattering Fools and Knaves betray'd , poor Jemmy is undone . Then Jemmy none more kind , and courteous had been ever : Thinking the like to find , but he as yet did never : For the false Swains that led him forth to expectations high : Design'd but to Eclipse his worth , brave Jemmy to outvie . But Jemmy saw not this , when in the Groves delighting , Nor thought to tread amiss , at such a fair inviting : But Jemmy was mistaken there , for he was led astray ; While each kind Swain and Nymph so fair , for Jemmy sigh'd all day . For Jemmy's loss the streams ran hoarse , as if with mourning ; The birds forgot their Leams and Flowers so late adorning . The pleasant Plains hung down their heads as bearing part o'th grief , And wishing he had longer stayed , but Jemmy'd no belief . For Jemmy'd no belief . For Jemmy's strutting veins , with youthful blood were flowing , Which made him raise his strains , to his almost undoing . Though each kind Villager did pray he would again return : And tread still in the pleasant Way ; but Jemmy it did scorn . For jemmy in fierce Arms , more then his Crook delighting : Dispis'd the Wood-Nymphs charms , that were so much inviting . And dreams of digging Trenches deep , storming each Fort and Town ; Ambition still disturb'd his sleep , while jemmy sought renown . But jemmy now may see , that he was led to ruin , By such as glad would be of his utter undoing . Yet that his Wandering he'd retrieve , the wish is of the Swains : And in Arcadia happy live , where his great Father reigns . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . Young Jemmy , OR , The Princely Shepherd . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Song . In blessed Arcadia , where each Shepherd feeds His numerous Flocks , and tunes on slender Reeds ; His song of Love , while the fair nymphs trip round , The chief among 'um was young Jemmy found : For he with glances could enslave each heart ; But found Ambition made him to depart The Fields to Court , led on by such as sought To blast his Virtues which much sorrow brought To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune . Or , In January last , Or , The Gowlin . YOung Jemmy was a Lad , of Royal birth and Breeding : With every Beauty clad , and every Swain exceeding . A face and shape so wondrous fine , so charming every par That every Lass upon the Green , for Jemmy had a heart . In Jemmy's powerful Eyes young Gods of Love are playing , And on his face there lies a thousand smiles betraying : But Oh he dances with a grace , none like him e're was seen : No God that ever fancied was , had so divine a meen . To Jemmy every Swain did lowly deft his Bonne And every Lass did strain , to praise him in her Son The pride of all the Youths he was , the Glory of the Groves : The pleasure of each tender Lass , and theme of all their Loves . BUt O unlucky fate , ah Curse upon Ambition : The busy Fops of State , have ruin'd his condition : For glittering hope he left his shade , his glorious hours are gone : By flattering Fools and Knaves betray'd , poor Jemmy is undone . Then Jemmy none more kind , and courteous had been ever : Thinking the like to find , but he as yet did never : For the false Swains that led him forth to expectations high : Design'd but to Eclipse his worth , brave Jemmy to outvie . But Jemmy saw not this , when in the Groves delighting , Nor thought to tread amiss , at such a fair inviting : But Jemmy was mistaken there , for he was led astray ; While each kind Swain and Nymph so fair , for Jemmy sigh'd all day . For Jemmy's loss the streams ran hoarse , as if with mourning ; The birds forgot their Leams and Flowers so late adorning . The pleasant Plains hung down their heads as bearing part o'th grief , And wishing he had longer stayed , but Jemmy'd no belief . For Jemmy'd no belief . For Jemmy's strutting veins , with youthful blood were flowing , Which made him raise his strains , to his almost undoing . Though each kind Villager did pray he would again return : And tread still in the pleasant Way ; but Jemmy it did scorn . For jemmy in fierce Arms , more then his Crook delighting : Dispis'd the Wood-Nymphs charms , that were so much inviting . And dreams of digging Trenches deep , storming each Fort and Town ; Ambition still disturb'd his sleep , while jemmy sought renown . But jemmy now may see , that he was led to ruin , By such as glad would be of his utter undoing . Yet that his Wandering he'd retrieve , the wish is of the Swains : And in Arcadia happy live , where his great Father reigns . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . 