C : RB . I.262 ( 119 ) I'll make thee be fain to follow me . A NEW SONG . To its own proper Tune , OF late a Dispute did happen to pass , Betwixt a lusty Soger and a young Lass , My Honey and Life I Love thee ( quoth he ) I'll make thee be fain to follow me , 2. To follow thee that's a Soger Lad , All Persons that know me would think me mad ; No Battle I ever did covet to see , So cannot be fain to follow thee . 3. My dear never fear the hazard of war , I of my Dear Jewel will take special care And from all dangers will set thee free , If thou wilt consent to follow me . 4. I cannot endure your pitiful Pay We'll never live well on Sixpence a Day ; By Nature we're taught to shun Poverty , I'll never be fain to follow thee . 5. What if I'm preferred by and Officer's fallen , Oh then you're called Madam by great and small ; Such things has happened ofttimes we do see . I'll make thee be fain to follow me . 6. I fear then you'll led a prodigal Life , Not valve you're wedded , and slight your poor Wife , And probably Love some other than me , I'll never be fain to follow thee . 7. No , no , my Dear I'll ever prove true ; My Love I will keep entirely for you , A kind loving Husband I vow I will be : Now therefore consent to follow me . 8. Since this you do swear I'll deny you no more . Your Faith and your Honour lies on this score ; Upon these Conditions thy Wife I will be : And now I am bound to follow thee . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 119 ) I'll make thee be fain to follow me . A NEW SONG . To its own proper Tune , OF late a Dispute did happen to pass , Betwixt a lusty Soger and a young Lass , My Honey and Life I Love thee ( quoth he ) I'll make thee be fain to follow me , 2. To follow thee that's a Soger Lad , All Persons that know me would think me mad ; No Battle I ever did covet to see , So cannot be fain to follow thee . 3. My dear never fear the hazard of war , I of my Dear Jewel will take special care And from all dangers will set thee free , If thou wilt consent to follow me . 4. I cannot endure your pitiful Pay We'll never live well on Sixpence a Day ; By Nature we're taught to shun Poverty , I'll never be fain to follow thee . 5. What if I'm preferred by and Officer's fallen , Oh then you're called Madam by great and small ; Such things has happened ofttimes we do see . I'll make thee be fain to follow me . 6. I fear then you'll led a prodigal Life , Not valve you're wedded , and slight your poor Wife , And probably Love some other than me , I'll never be fain to follow thee . 7. No , no , my Dear I'll ever prove true ; My Love I will keep entirely for you , A kind loving Husband I vow I will be : Now therefore consent to follow me . 8. Since this you do swear I'll deny you no more . Your Faith and your Honour lies on this score ; Upon these Conditions thy Wife I will be : And now I am bound to follow thee . FINIS . 