C : RB . I.262 ( 113 ) Willie Winkies Testament . To the Tune of Willie Winkies Farewell . MY Daddy left me geer enough , A coulter and and old Beam Plough , A nebbed staff and a nuting Tyne , And Angle Bend with Hook and Line With Two old Stools , a dirt House , A Jerkinet scarce worth a Luse ; With and old Pot that wants the Lug , A Spurtle and a Sown Mug , A Hempen Heckle , and a Mell , A Tarr horn and a Weathers Bell , A Matchlock and and old Peet creil With the spaiks of our Spinning Wheel : A pair of branks yea and a S [ ? ] riddle , With our old brunt and broken laddle , A Whang belt and a Sniffel bit , Cheer up my Bairns and Dance a fit , A Flalling Staff and a Wooden Spit , With and old chirn and a holl in it Yearn winnels and a Reel , With a Fetter Lock and a Trump of Steel A Whissel , and a Ram Horn Spoon With and old pair of clouted shoes A Wooden Spade and a gleg shear , A Bonnet for my Bairns to weer . A Timber Tongue's and a broken craddle With a pallien of and old cart Saddle , A gully Knife , and and Horse Wand , With a Mitten for the Left Hand , With and old broken pan of Brass , And and old Sark that wants the Arse , With and old Band and a Hodding How And I hope my Bairns ye're all well now : Oft have I born you on my back , With all this Rif Raf on my back , And it was all for want of geer , That gart me steall the parsons Mare , But now my Bairns what ails you now For you have Naigs enough to blow , And hose and Shoes fit for your feet cheer up my Bairns , and do not greet . Then with myself I did Advice , My Daddies Geer for to comprise , Some Neighbours I called in to see , What Geer my Daddy be left me , They sat Three Quarters of a Year , comprising of my Daddies geer . And when they had given oll their Votes 'Twas scarcely all worth Four pound Scots FINIS , C : RB . I.262 ( 113 ) Willie Winkies Testament . To the Tune of Willie Winkies Farewell . MY Daddy left me geer enough , A coulter and and old Beam Plough , A nebbed staff and a nuting Tyne , And Angle Bend with Hook and Line With Two old Stools , a dirt House , A Jerkinet scarce worth a Luse ; With and old Pot that wants the Lug , A Spurtle and a Sown Mug , A Hempen Heckle , and a Mell , A Tarr horn and a Weathers Bell , A Matchlock and and old Peet creil With the spaiks of our Spinning Wheel : A pair of branks yea and a S [ ? ] riddle , With our old brunt and broken laddle , A Whang belt and a Sniffel bit , Cheer up my Bairns and Dance a fit , A Flalling Staff and a Wooden Spit , With and old chirn and a holl in it Yearn winnels and a Reel , With a Fetter Lock and a Trump of Steel A Whissel , and a Ram Horn Spoon With and old pair of clouted shoes A Wooden Spade and a gleg shear , A Bonnet for my Bairns to weer . A Timber Tongue's and a broken craddle With a pallien of and old cart Saddle , A gully Knife , and and Horse Wand , With a Mitten for the Left Hand , With and old broken pan of Brass , And and old Sark that wants the Arse , With and old Band and a Hodding How And I hope my Bairns ye're all well now : Oft have I born you on my back , With all this Rif Raf on my back , And it was all for want of geer , That gart me steall the parsons Mare , But now my Bairns what ails you now For you have Naigs enough to blow , And hose and Shoes fit for your feet cheer up my Bairns , and do not greet . Then with myself I did Advice , My Daddies Geer for to comprise , Some Neighbours I called in to see , What Geer my Daddy be left me , They sat Three Quarters of a Year , comprising of my Daddies geer . And when they had given oll their Votes 'Twas scarcely all worth Four pound Scots FINIS , 