C : RB . I.262 ( 115 ) AND Excellent new Song OR , THE Country Lads Kindness to his Nanny near to the Thorn on Polworth Green . To its own Proper Tune . AMong the Broom unseen , I spy'd a goodly Swain , With no unseemly Thing , But Courting of his own , And after very little space Some Kisses did exchange She rose her up and homeward made And to her Love seem'd strange . Oh! what needs all this haste To flee away from me , You come as you were in a haste And now away will be ; Were I the King that wears the Crown I'd put i on thy Brow ; Thou art the flower of Polwarth Town The Gallands goes with you . But upon Polwarth Green If you'l meet me the Morn ; The Lasses they will Conveen ; And Dance about the Thorn ; They'l make the welcome for my sake And go about with thee ; Thy'l spend their Plack's most merely All for the Love of me . The Lads into the Town Will take you by the Hand ; Where ever you Abided They'l be at your Command They'l break thy Bred & Drink thy Beer And meery thy will be ; They pay their share before they go All for the Love of me . At Night my Father will invite you to his House Where you shall have your fill ; Of Capon Heen and Goose And if the Beds they be so strong And thou be bassed of thine ; Pray make no doubt you'l lie the rout ; You shall have share of mine . Come throw the blooming Fields Where we will merry be ; Our Country Lads and Lasses they Will Dance around the Tree Then for my sake they'l drink a Glass And Loving be to thee They'l give you Wine of Claret read All for the Love me . While the young Lambs are Skipping And bleeting for their Damsels On Pleasant Banks and lovely Braes , And low down by the Streams : There we will sing , and merry be , With a Lass upon each Knee , They'll pay the Pipper e're they go , All for the Love of thee . When I the Country Lass Spied on the Flora Plain , I thought some Goddess she had been She so disturbed my Brain Her charming Looks and cool black Hair the like I ne're had seen In City , Town or at the Court Nor yet on Polwarth Green . FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 115 ) AND Excellent new Song OR , THE Country Lads Kindness to his Nanny near to the Thorn on Polworth Green . To its own Proper Tune . AMong the Broom unseen , I spy'd a goodly Swain , With no unseemly Thing , But Courting of his own , And after very little space Some Kisses did exchange She rose her up and homeward made And to her Love seem'd strange . Oh! what needs all this haste To flee away from me , You come as you were in a haste And now away will be ; Were I the King that wears the Crown I'd put i on thy Brow ; Thou art the flower of Polwarth Town The Gallands goes with you . But upon Polwarth Green If you'l meet me the Morn ; The Lasses they will Conveen ; And Dance about the Thorn ; They'l make the welcome for my sake And go about with thee ; Thy'l spend their Plack's most merely All for the Love of me . The Lads into the Town Will take you by the Hand ; Where ever you Abided They'l be at your Command They'l break thy Bred & Drink thy Beer And meery thy will be ; They pay their share before they go All for the Love of me . At Night my Father will invite you to his House Where you shall have your fill ; Of Capon Heen and Goose And if the Beds they be so strong And thou be bassed of thine ; Pray make no doubt you'l lie the rout ; You shall have share of mine . Come throw the blooming Fields Where we will merry be ; Our Country Lads and Lasses they Will Dance around the Tree Then for my sake they'l drink a Glass And Loving be to thee They'l give you Wine of Claret read All for the Love me . While the young Lambs are Skipping And bleeting for their Damsels On Pleasant Banks and lovely Braes , And low down by the Streams : There we will sing , and merry be , With a Lass upon each Knee , They'll pay the Pipper e're they go , All for the Love of thee . When I the Country Lass Spied on the Flora Plain , I thought some Goddess she had been She so disturbed my Brain Her charming Looks and cool black Hair the like I ne're had seen In City , Town or at the Court Nor yet on Polwarth Green . FINIS 