C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 6 ) THE GENTLE MONTGOMERIES : And Excellent New SONG , Giving and Account of their Original , and of Rodger Earl of Montgome - ry , Salsberry and Arundale , General to William the Conqueror his coming to England , with several Parts of History concerning them , ending with and Advice to the Chief of the CLAN . To its own Proper Tune . A Noble Roman was the Root From which Montgomeries came , Who brought his Legion from the Wars , And settled the same , Upon and Hill 'twixt Rome and Spain Gomericus by Name ; From which he and his Offspring do Their Surname still retain . 2 From this into the Wars of France , Their Valour did them bring , That they great Instruments might be , To save the Gallick King : Here with great Splendour and Renown , Six Centuries they spend : At Length for England they set Sail : Ambition hath no End. 3 On British Ground they land at Length , Rodger must General be , A Cousin of the Conqueror' , And fittest to supply The greatest Post into the Field , The Army then leads he , Into a Campt , Hastings by Name , In Sussex , where you'll see 4 The Marks of Camps unto this Day , And where you'll hear it told , The English King did them attack , Most like a Captain bold : But soon alas ! he found it vain , With Rodger Arms to try : This warry Officer prepares , His Projects to defy . 5 The strong Attacks he then observes , Which made him thence to dread , That England's King might be among Those , who charg'd with such Speed : The Life-Guards straight he ordered , Their Fury to defend ; Where Harold , England's King at once , His Crown and Life did end . 6 Whence to the Conqueror did come The English Sceptre great , And William England's King declar'd , To London came in State . Earl Rodgor then the greatest Man , Next to the King was thought ; And Nothing that he could desire , But it to him was brought . 7 Montgomery Town , Montgomery Shire , And Earl of Salsburie , And Arundel do show this Man , Of Grandeur full to be . Thus did he live all this King's Reign , For Works of Piety : He built the Cathed'ral , and then , Laid down his Head to die . 8 At last King William yields to Fate . And then his second Son Mounts on the Throne , which had almost The Kingdom quite undone : Some for the Eldest Son stand up , As Rodger's Sons did all : But the Usurper keeps the Throne , Which did procure their Fallen . 9 Then Philip into Scotland came , Unable to endure , That they who Earldoms had possessed , Of Nought should be secure . The King of Scots well knew the Worth , Of Men of Noble Raze , Who in no Time of Ages past , Their Worth did once deface . 10 He in the Merse gives Philip Land Which afterwards he soon With the Black Douglass did exchange For Eastwood and Ponoon ; Here many Ages they did live , By King and Country lov'd , As Men of Valour and Renown , Who were with Honour mov'd ; 11 To shun no Hazard , when they could To either Service do : Thus did they live , thus did they spend Their Blood and Money too . At last Earl Douglass did inform , That to our King's Disgrace , And English Earl had deeply swore , He'd hunt in Chevychase , 12 And maugre all that Scots could do , Would kill , and bear away The choicest Deer of Otterburn , And best of Hearts would slay . The King sent his Commands unto Sir Hugh Montgomery , And told him Douglass wanted Men , Who fight could , but not flee . 13 The stout Sir Hugh himself prepares , The Douglass to support , And with him took his Eldest Son ; Then did they all resort Unto the Field with their brave Men , Where most of them did die , Of Fifteen Hundred warlike Scots Came Home but Fifty three . 14 Douglass was slave ; Sir Hugh again The Battle did renew : He made no Stand , with his own Hand The Earl Percie he slew . Sir Hugh was slave , Sir John maintain'd The Honour of the Day , And with him brought the Victory , And Percie's Son away . 15 He with his Ransom built Ponoon , A Castle which yet stands : The King well pleas'd , as a Reward Did also give him Lands , And some Time after gave his Nice , Of Eglinton the Heir . To Sir Hugh's Representative ; Thus joined was this Pair . 16 As with her came a great Estate , So by her did descend , Her Royal Blood to Lenox House , Which did in Darnly end , Who Father was to James the Sixth , Of Britain the first King , Whose Royal Raze unto this Day , Does ov'r Great Britain reign . 17 Since you are come of Royal Blood , And Kings are sprung from you , See that with greatest Zeal and Love , Those Virtues you pursue , Which to those Honours rais'd your House , And shall without all Stain , In Heralds Books your Ensigns flowr'd , And counter-flowr'd maintain . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 6 ) THE GENTLE MONTGOMERIES : And Excellent New SONG , Giving and Account of their Original , and of Rodger Earl of Montgome - ry , Salsberry and Arundale , General to William the Conqueror his coming to England , with several Parts of History concerning them , ending with and Advice to the Chief of the CLAN . To its own Proper Tune . A Noble Roman was the Root From which Montgomeries came , Who brought his Legion from the Wars , And settled the same , Upon and Hill 'twixt Rome and Spain Gomericus by Name ; From which he and his Offspring do Their Surname still retain . 2 From this into the Wars of France , Their Valour did them bring , That they great Instruments might be , To save the Gallick King : Here with great Splendour and Renown , Six Centuries they spend : At Length for England they set Sail : Ambition hath no End. 3 On British Ground they land at Length , Rodger must General be , A Cousin of the Conqueror' , And fittest to supply The greatest Post into the Field , The Army then leads he , Into a Campt , Hastings by Name , In Sussex , where you'll see 4 The Marks of Camps unto this Day , And where you'll hear it told , The English King did them attack , Most like a Captain bold : But soon alas ! he found it vain , With Rodger Arms to try : This warry Officer prepares , His Projects to defy . 5 The strong Attacks he then observes , Which made him thence to dread , That England's King might be among Those , who charg'd with such Speed : The Life-Guards straight he ordered , Their Fury to defend ; Where Harold , England's King at once , His Crown and Life did end . 6 Whence to the Conqueror did come The English Sceptre great , And William England's King declar'd , To London came in State . Earl Rodgor then the greatest Man , Next to the King was thought ; And Nothing that he could desire , But it to him was brought . 7 Montgomery Town , Montgomery Shire , And Earl of Salsburie , And Arundel do show this Man , Of Grandeur full to be . Thus did he live all this King's Reign , For Works of Piety : He built the Cathed'ral , and then , Laid down his Head to die . 8 At last King William yields to Fate . And then his second Son Mounts on the Throne , which had almost The Kingdom quite undone : Some for the Eldest Son stand up , As Rodger's Sons did all : But the Usurper keeps the Throne , Which did procure their Fallen . 9 Then Philip into Scotland came , Unable to endure , That they who Earldoms had possessed , Of Nought should be secure . The King of Scots well knew the Worth , Of Men of Noble Raze , Who in no Time of Ages past , Their Worth did once deface . 10 He in the Merse gives Philip Land Which afterwards he soon With the Black Douglass did exchange For Eastwood and Ponoon ; Here many Ages they did live , By King and Country lov'd , As Men of Valour and Renown , Who were with Honour mov'd ; 11 To shun no Hazard , when they could To either Service do : Thus did they live , thus did they spend Their Blood and Money too . At last Earl Douglass did inform , That to our King's Disgrace , And English Earl had deeply swore , He'd hunt in Chevychase , 12 And maugre all that Scots could do , Would kill , and bear away The choicest Deer of Otterburn , And best of Hearts would slay . The King sent his Commands unto Sir Hugh Montgomery , And told him Douglass wanted Men , Who fight could , but not flee . 13 The stout Sir Hugh himself prepares , The Douglass to support , And with him took his Eldest Son ; Then did they all resort Unto the Field with their brave Men , Where most of them did die , Of Fifteen Hundred warlike Scots Came Home but Fifty three . 14 Douglass was slave ; Sir Hugh again The Battle did renew : He made no Stand , with his own Hand The Earl Percie he slew . Sir Hugh was slave , Sir John maintain'd The Honour of the Day , And with him brought the Victory , And Percie's Son away . 15 He with his Ransom built Ponoon , A Castle which yet stands : The King well pleas'd , as a Reward Did also give him Lands , And some Time after gave his Nice , Of Eglinton the Heir . To Sir Hugh's Representative ; Thus joined was this Pair . 16 As with her came a great Estate , So by her did descend , Her Royal Blood to Lenox House , Which did in Darnly end , Who Father was to James the Sixth , Of Britain the first King , Whose Royal Raze unto this Day , Does ov'r Great Britain reign . 17 Since you are come of Royal Blood , And Kings are sprung from you , See that with greatest Zeal and Love , Those Virtues you pursue , Which to those Honours rais'd your House , And shall without all Stain , In Heralds Books your Ensigns flowr'd , And counter-flowr'd maintain . FINIS . 