C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 11 ) The True Lovers Joy : OR , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the Aid of Charon's Boat , That to the gloomy shades her Soul migh float , With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At last he herd her moan , and gave her rest , From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arriv'd and Anchor'd in in his arms . To a new Tune , much in request . HArk Charon come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid , unto the Elizium shores . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain ? I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slave . I am come , dear Soul I come , thy face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room , no wind nor wave shall harm thee . Now I am come in thy boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my heart is almost broke , for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , I'le tell you a mournful tail , So full of sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a Gale . And so beguil'd the time , I'le sing you a true Lovers song , Mine eyes shall flow a sea of tears , to carry the Boat along . O what's become of those hard heart of a Virgins takes no pity ; They're sailing to Virginia parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and haht pierc'd my tender heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the shades below , we'l wast the tedious hours No gusts of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charon's Oars . His Answer . Stay Gentle Charon stay , and let thy boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away , that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast ; and sighs so at thy stay . A Virgin is as pure and chaste , as e're true Love did slay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face encharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be , [ ? ] thee . O fair one , if you go ; I'me more undone than you , My Heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell , In stead of sighing Gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Lovers Song , It is enough we need no more to carry his Boat along . No Heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , I you Love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In beds of softest Down , we'l spend the short liv'd nights , No gust of Wind or sighs shall drown , the current of our Delights . Maid . COme gentle Charon come and me to shore remove , The wind despairing fight did blow , shall waft me unto my Love . How slow the Boats man steers , if he no faster ply , My love to rid me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly . To thee dear Love I float , finding thee just and true , And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make hast my dear , for if thou longer stay , Through the floods without all fears , my Arms shall make their way . Welcome my Love to shore , I'le keep thee from harms , And thou shalt ride for ever more , at Anchor in my Arms. F1I6N9I4 . S . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 11 ) The True Lovers Joy : OR , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the Aid of Charon's Boat , That to the gloomy shades her Soul migh float , With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At last he herd her moan , and gave her rest , From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arriv'd and Anchor'd in in his arms . To a new Tune , much in request . HArk Charon come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid , unto the Elizium shores . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain ? I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slave . I am come , dear Soul I come , thy face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room , no wind nor wave shall harm thee . Now I am come in thy boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my heart is almost broke , for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , I'le tell you a mournful tail , So full of sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a Gale . And so beguil'd the time , I'le sing you a true Lovers song , Mine eyes shall flow a sea of tears , to carry the Boat along . O what's become of those hard heart of a Virgins takes no pity ; They're sailing to Virginia parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and haht pierc'd my tender heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the shades below , we'l wast the tedious hours No gusts of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charon's Oars . His Answer . Stay Gentle Charon stay , and let thy boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away , that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast ; and sighs so at thy stay . A Virgin is as pure and chaste , as e're true Love did slay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face encharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be , [ ? ] thee . O fair one , if you go ; I'me more undone than you , My Heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell , In stead of sighing Gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Lovers Song , It is enough we need no more to carry his Boat along . No Heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , I you Love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In beds of softest Down , we'l spend the short liv'd nights , No gust of Wind or sighs shall drown , the current of our Delights . Maid . COme gentle Charon come and me to shore remove , The wind despairing fight did blow , shall waft me unto my Love . How slow the Boats man steers , if he no faster ply , My love to rid me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly . To thee dear Love I float , finding thee just and true , And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make hast my dear , for if thou longer stay , Through the floods without all fears , my Arms shall make their way . Welcome my Love to shore , I'le keep thee from harms , And thou shalt ride for ever more , at Anchor in my Arms. F1I6N9I4 . S. 