C : RB . I.262 ( 125 ) And Excellent new Ballad , Entitled Doll the Dair [ y ] Maid , or the Dovenshire Damsel's Resolution [ to ] Marry , together with her fierce Encounter with [ th ] the Taylor , Miller , etc To the Tune of , Ladies of London , etc MOther , I tejl you I'd sain be a Bride - as well as my sweet Sister Nancy , And have a Husband to lie by my side , might I have one I cowld fancy , I'll not have Ralph because he is poor , nor Roger because he is sulling , Since I've a Dozon or twenty in stor , I will be for picking and culling : First came a Taylor with Bodkin and Shears , and vow'd he did dearly ador me ; I ludg'd the impudent Knave by the Ears , and tumbl'd him down stairs before me : Sirrah quoth I take notice in brief in time you'l be catch'd by the Jailor ; Think you I'le marry a Cucumber Thief , a pitiful Cabbidging Taylor , Roger the Miller , in all his best Clothes , he came about seven days after , And as he said he did truly suppose to marry with Dally my Daughter : But against him my fury I played , and tumbl'd him into the Cellar , Sarrah quoth I , it shall never be said , I marr'd a Thief and a Miller . Then came bold Harry , a Counceller's Cook ; and Mothre intruth , I will tell you , Without Disputing he presently took your Daughter almost by the Belly ; Mother he was a very sad Man , for as on my breast he was leaning , He swore he would have a Soap in the pan ; I presently guest at his meaning . Then came a Baker ane ignorant Soul , and asked me if that I could love him ; He Discours'd much of his Rusling pole , and said , he would bake in my Oven ; I turn'd the Rascal out of the Door ; and bang'd him about with a Raker , Quoth I , I'll ne'r have the Curse of the poor , by Marrying a Pillory Baker . Mother , a Painter you shall understand , came to me the next with a Pensil , Which , forsooth Mother , he brought in his hand . me thought 'twas a pretty Utensel Close by my side he presently god , placed on a Chair and a Cushion , Where he did pull out I Don't know what which set your poor Daughter a blushing . I'll nevor hear Marry with none of that Crew , give me a stout Soldier in armour ; Or else a Seaman , some honest true Blue , or else a good Country Farmer : These are the main supports of the Land , the Farmer , the Soldier , the Sailor ; Therefore I'll never be at the Command of Painter or pitiful Taylor . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 125 ) And Excellent new Ballad , Entitled Doll the Dair [ y ] Maid , or the Dovenshire Damsel's Resolution [ to ] Marry , together with her fierce Encounter with [ th ] the Taylor , Miller , etc To the Tune of , Ladies of London , etc MOther , I tejl you I'd sain be a Bride - as well as my sweet Sister Nancy , And have a Husband to lie by my side , might I have one I cowld fancy , I'll not have Ralph because he is poor , nor Roger because he is sulling , Since I've a Dozon or twenty in stor , I will be for picking and culling : First came a Taylor with Bodkin and Shears , and vow'd he did dearly ador me ; I ludg'd the impudent Knave by the Ears , and tumbl'd him down stairs before me : Sirrah quoth I take notice in brief in time you'l be catch'd by the Jailor ; Think you I'le marry a Cucumber Thief , a pitiful Cabbidging Taylor , Roger the Miller , in all his best Clothes , he came about seven days after , And as he said he did truly suppose to marry with Dally my Daughter : But against him my fury I played , and tumbl'd him into the Cellar , Sarrah quoth I , it shall never be said , I marr'd a Thief and a Miller . Then came bold Harry , a Counceller's Cook ; and Mothre intruth , I will tell you , Without Disputing he presently took your Daughter almost by the Belly ; Mother he was a very sad Man , for as on my breast he was leaning , He swore he would have a Soap in the pan ; I presently guest at his meaning . Then came a Baker ane ignorant Soul , and asked me if that I could love him ; He Discours'd much of his Rusling pole , and said , he would bake in my Oven ; I turn'd the Rascal out of the Door ; and bang'd him about with a Raker , Quoth I , I'll ne'r have the Curse of the poor , by Marrying a Pillory Baker . Mother , a Painter you shall understand , came to me the next with a Pensil , Which , forsooth Mother , he brought in his hand . me thought 'twas a pretty Utensel Close by my side he presently god , placed on a Chair and a Cushion , Where he did pull out I Don't know what which set your poor Daughter a blushing . I'll nevor hear Marry with none of that Crew , give me a stout Soldier in armour ; Or else a Seaman , some honest true Blue , or else a good Country Farmer : These are the main supports of the Land , the Farmer , the Soldier , the Sailor ; Therefore I'll never be at the Command of Painter or pitiful Taylor . FINIS . 