C : RB . I.262 ( 127 ) To the best of MONARCHS , His MAJESTY of GREAT BRITAIN , etc CHARLES THE SECOND , A GRATULATORY POEM On the most happy Arrival of His most Excellent Majesty , CHARLES the Second , by the Grace of God , King of England , Scotland , France , and Ireland , who landed at Dover , Friday , May 25. 1660. to the most unspeakable Joy of His Subject's . HEav'n at the Last hath herd my Prayers , I stand , Full of fair hope's to kiss my Princes hand , And need no flames that may new heats infuse , Zeal can create a Verse without a Muse ; The wounds I have receiv'd , the years I've spent , The months I've told in long Imprisonment , I look on now with Joy ; who would not be One day in Chains , to be for ever free ? My Prayers are herd , the King Himself is come , The Grace and Glory of all Christendome . 'Tis He repairs our Breaches , and restores The Land to safety , and does heal our Sores ; This He that strokes our Griefs , and wipes our Eyes , Sets us in order , and does make us wise : For ne'r was Nation so before misled , To court the Tail , and make the Rump their Head. Where are the Saints now that would fain be known , To have no other Holidays but their own ? Where are our cruel Regicids , and all That petulant crew we ANABAPTISTS call ? Whose wild Religion , and whose zeal does border , On Faction , Ruin , Falsehood and Disorder ; Whose Gospel speaks it is too hard a thing , To honour God , and to obey the King ; And from their Bibles do expunge that Text , As too obliging , or too much perplex The day is now at hand that will declare , What men of Conscience , and what Saints they are , Who still pursue ( o most inhumane wrongs ) The Lords Anointed with their threatening tongues ; As if the Father slave , they had not done Enough , unless they massacred the Son : This to prevent , the King Himself draws nigh , Full of His Cause , His Eye with Majesty , His Brow with thunders arm'd , and on each hand The Youth of Heav'n in files unnumbered stand , His glorious Guard ; for to the world be't known , That Heaven is pleas'd to make this Cause his own : For who the King affront , the like would do To th' KING of Kings , could they come at Him too . Now as the Sun when his absented light Approaches nearer Day , does smile out right , And the thick Vapours of the night do fly In guilty Tumults from his searching Eye ; So now the King in person hath begun To show himself like the Meridian Sun , To shine in all his Glories , and dispense Throughout the Land his powerful Influence ; The clouds of bold Rebellion , the false light Of falser zeal , and Meteors of the Night , The sullen Vapours , and the Mists that made A great Confusion in so great a shade , Shall waste before him , as he comes our States Extremes to temper ; for it pleas'd the Fates , Though others travailed in the work , yet none Shall heal our Griefs , but who our hearts did own ; Nor shall the North regain their ancient worth , But by that Monarch whom the North brought forth . And Fame no sooner to our ears did bring The welcome story of our landed King , But all the Lords and Gentry of the Land Made haste to wait upon his high Command , So full their Train , so gallant their Array , As if their splendour would outshine the day ; Who all as soon as they the King displayed , Who can imagine what a shout was made ? The glittering of their clothes outvy'd the Suns , Hats in the Air flew up , Guns roared to Guns , And Trumpets deafened Trumpets , who'd have thought These e're in arms against each other fought ? Th' outlandish that did mark it , and stood by , In our behalf all out aloud did cry , Was never Nation now more blessed than we ? Nor ever Monarch more admir'd then He. How great will be our growing Joys we may Presume will Crown his Coronation Day ? For to his matchless merit 'twill be more Then ever King of ENGLAND had before ; At which , since Heav'n and Earth with shouts do ring , Let Heaven and Earth say both , GOD save the KING . S. HOLLAND . EDINBURGH , Reprinted by Christopher Higgins , in Hearts Close , over against the Trone-Church , 1660. C : RB . I.262 ( 127 ) To the best of MONARCHS , His MAJESTY of GREAT BRITAIN , etc CHARLES THE SECOND , A GRATULATORY POEM On the most happy Arrival of His most Excellent Majesty , CHARLES the Second , by the Grace of God , King of England , Scotland , France , and Ireland , who landed at Dover , Friday , May 25. 1660. to the most unspeakable Joy of His Subject's . HEav'n at the Last hath herd my Prayers , I stand , Full of fair hope's to kiss my Princes hand , And need no flames that may new heats infuse , Zeal can create a Verse without a Muse ; The wounds I have receiv'd , the years I've spent , The months I've told in long Imprisonment , I look on now with Joy ; who would not be One day in Chains , to be for ever free ? My Prayers are herd , the King Himself is come , The Grace and Glory of all Christendome . 'Tis He repairs our Breaches , and restores The Land to safety , and does heal our Sores ; This He that strokes our Griefs , and wipes our Eyes , Sets us in order , and does make us wise : For ne'r was Nation so before misled , To court the Tail , and make the Rump their Head. Where are the Saints now that would fain be known , To have no other Holidays but their own ? Where are our cruel Regicids , and all That petulant crew we ANABAPTISTS call ? Whose wild Religion , and whose zeal does border , On Faction , Ruin , Falsehood and Disorder ; Whose Gospel speaks it is too hard a thing , To honour God , and to obey the King ; And from their Bibles do expunge that Text , As too obliging , or too much perplex The day is now at hand that will declare , What men of Conscience , and what Saints they are , Who still pursue ( o most inhumane wrongs ) The Lords Anointed with their threatening tongues ; As if the Father slave , they had not done Enough , unless they massacred the Son : This to prevent , the King Himself draws nigh , Full of His Cause , His Eye with Majesty , His Brow with thunders arm'd , and on each hand The Youth of Heav'n in files unnumbered stand , His glorious Guard ; for to the world be't known , That Heaven is pleas'd to make this Cause his own : For who the King affront , the like would do To th' KING of Kings , could they come at Him too . Now as the Sun when his absented light Approaches nearer Day , does smile out right , And the thick Vapours of the night do fly In guilty Tumults from his searching Eye ; So now the King in person hath begun To show himself like the Meridian Sun , To shine in all his Glories , and dispense Throughout the Land his powerful Influence ; The clouds of bold Rebellion , the false light Of falser zeal , and Meteors of the Night , The sullen Vapours , and the Mists that made A great Confusion in so great a shade , Shall waste before him , as he comes our States Extremes to temper ; for it pleas'd the Fates , Though others travailed in the work , yet none Shall heal our Griefs , but who our hearts did own ; Nor shall the North regain their ancient worth , But by that Monarch whom the North brought forth . And Fame no sooner to our ears did bring The welcome story of our landed King , But all the Lords and Gentry of the Land Made haste to wait upon his high Command , So full their Train , so gallant their Array , As if their splendour would outshine the day ; Who all as soon as they the King displayed , Who can imagine what a shout was made ? The glittering of their clothes outvy'd the Suns , Hats in the Air flew up , Guns roared to Guns , And Trumpets deafened Trumpets , who'd have thought These e're in arms against each other fought ? Th' outlandish that did mark it , and stood by , In our behalf all out aloud did cry , Was never Nation now more blessed than we ? Nor ever Monarch more admir'd then He. How great will be our growing Joys we may Presume will Crown his Coronation Day ? For to his matchless merit 'twill be more Then ever King of ENGLAND had before ; At which , since Heav'n and Earth with shouts do ring , Let Heaven and Earth say both , GOD save the KING . S. HOLLAND . EDINBURGH , Reprinted by Christopher Higgins , in Hearts Close , over against the Trone-Church , 1660. 