C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 7 ) And excellent New Song Entitled , the New way of the Broom of Cowden Knows . HArd Fate that I should banished be And Rebel ealled with Scorn , For serving of a Lovely Prince , As e'er yet was Born , Oh the Broom the Bonny Broom The Broom of Cowding knows , I wish his Friends had Stayed at home Milking there Dadys Ewes . My trusty Targe and good Claymore Must now lie useless by ; My Pleding Trows that heretofore I wore so Cheerfully . O the Broom , etc Aduie old Albain I say , Farewell all pleasures there , Till I come back to my own Land , which I hope to see once more O the Braom etc Most cheerfully he did come or'e Sent Taklings to the North , But Judas like he was betray'd By Huntly , not Seaforth , Oh the Broom' etc O! Wretched Huntly vail thy Face , Thy K -- g and Countries gone , And many Valiant Scot thou hast By Treachery undone . O the Broom , etc But since the French does take our part my fears Dispelled be I hope few months will endour smart And we our Friends shall see O! the Broom . etc The Noble Sweed our Friend appears The Christian King also , The King of Spain Britan not fears That he will them o're through O the Broom , etc O blessed LORD let King George ring Let Scotland happy be , And I shall not my Fate bemoan , What ever happen's me , O! the Broom , etc Well meet our Friends with Noble Heart , Attired with Armour clear Who him oppose shall feel our Darts , Like Old Scot Men of Weir , Oh the Broom , etc Then happay Days and Pace well have Content in every place , Ashamed all the Rouges shall be , And Honest Men shall have Place Oh the Broom , the bonny Broom The Broom of Cowden-Knows , I wish his Friends had stayed at home a Milking of the Ewes . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 7 ) And excellent New Song Entitled , the New way of the Broom of Cowden Knows . HArd Fate that I should banished be And Rebel ealled with Scorn , For serving of a Lovely Prince , As e'er yet was Born , Oh the Broom the Bonny Broom The Broom of Cowding knows , I wish his Friends had Stayed at home Milking there Dadys Ewes . My trusty Targe and good Claymore Must now lie useless by ; My Pleding Trows that heretofore I wore so Cheerfully . O the Broom , etc Aduie old Albain I say , Farewell all pleasures there , Till I come back to my own Land , which I hope to see once more O the Braom etc Most cheerfully he did come or'e Sent Taklings to the North , But Judas like he was betray'd By Huntly , not Seaforth , Oh the Broom' etc O! Wretched Huntly vail thy Face , Thy K -- g and Countries gone , And many Valiant Scot thou hast By Treachery undone . O the Broom , etc But since the French does take our part my fears Dispelled be I hope few months will endour smart And we our Friends shall see O! the Broom . etc The Noble Sweed our Friend appears The Christian King also , The King of Spain Britan not fears That he will them o're through O the Broom , etc O blessed LORD let King George ring Let Scotland happy be , And I shall not my Fate bemoan , What ever happen's me , O! the Broom , etc Well meet our Friends with Noble Heart , Attired with Armour clear Who him oppose shall feel our Darts , Like Old Scot Men of Weir , Oh the Broom , etc Then happay Days and Pace well have Content in every place , Ashamed all the Rouges shall be , And Honest Men shall have Place Oh the Broom , the bonny Broom The Broom of Cowden-Knows , I wish his Friends had stayed at home a Milking of the Ewes . FINIS . 