C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 13 ) Leader-haughs and Yarow . To its own proper Tune . WHen Phoebus bright the Azure Skies with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies , herbs , trees , and plants he quick'neth : Among all those he makes his choice , and gladly goes he thorough , With radiant beams , and silver streams , through Leader-Haughs and Yarow . When Aries the day and night in equal length divides , Old frosty Saturn takes the flight no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen , with Mantle green , casts off her deadly sorrow , And vows to dwell with Ceres fell in Leader-Haughs and Yarrow . Pan playing with his Oaten Reed , with shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their flocks to feed , the hills and haughs commending ; With bottle , bag , and staff with knag , and all singing good morrow ; They swear no fields more pleasure yields than Leader-haughs and Yarrow . One house there stands on Leader side , surmounting my descryving , With ease-rooms rare , and windows fair , like Daedalus contriving : Men passing by , do often say , in south it hath no marrow ; It stands as fair on Leader side , as New-work does on Yarrow . A mile below , who list to ride , they'l hear the Mavis singing ; Into St. Leonards Bank she'l bide , sweet Birks her head o're-hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud , with tender throats and narrow , Into St. Leonards Banks do sing as sweetly as in Yarrow . The Lapwing lilteth o're the Lee , with nimble wings she sporteth ; But vows she'l not come near the tree where Philomel resorteth : By break of day the Lark can say , I'le bid you all good-morrow ; I'le yout and yell for I may dwell in Leader-haughs and Yarow . Park , Wanton-walls , and Wooden-Cleugh , the East and Wester Mainses , The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blainslies ; Where Oats are fine , and sold by kind , that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchan , Marr , none better are , than Leader-haughs and Yarow . In Burn-Miln Boge , & White-slede shaws , the fearful Hare she haunteth ; Bridge-baugh & Broad-wood sheil she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth : Yet when she irks , to Kaidslie Birks she runs and sighs for sorrow , That she should leave sweet Leader haughs and cannot win to Yarow . What sweetet music would you hear , than Hounds and Beigles crying ? The Hare waits not , but flees for fear , their hard pursuits defying . But yet her strength it fails at length , no beilding can she borrow At Hags , Cleckmae , nor Sorlesfield , but longs to be at Yarow . For Rock-wood , Rink-wood , Rival , Aimer , still thinking for to view her , But Oh to fail her strength begins , no cunning can rescue her : O're dubb and dyke , o're seugh and syke , she [ ' ] l run the fields all thorough ; Yet ends her days in Leader-haughs , and bids farewell to Yarow . Thou Erslingtonn and Colding-knowes , where Humes had once commanding And Dry Grange with thy milk white Ewes 'twixt Tweed and Leader standing : The birds that flees through Red-path trees and Gledswood Bank all thorough , May chant and sing , sweet Leader-haughs , and the bonny Banks of Yarrow . But Burn cannot his grief assuage , while as his days endureth , To see the changes of his age , which day and time procureth . For many a place stands in hard case , where Burns was blithe besorrow , With Humes that dwelled on Leader side , and Scots that dwelled in Yarow . The Words of Burn the Violer . WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Elegy , no sports and mirds deriding ? It must be fain with lower strain , than it was wont besorrow , To found the praise of Leader-haughs , and the bonny Banks of Yarrow . But Floods have overflown the Banks , the greenish Haughs disgracing , And Trees in Woods grows thin in ranks about the fields defacing . For Waters waxes , Woods does wained , more , if could for sorrow , In rural Verse , I could rehearse , of Leader-haughs and Yarow . But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath , soar saltish tears forth sending . All things Sublunar here on earth are subject to and ending ; So must my Song , though somewhat long , yet late at even and morrow , I'le sighs and sing , sweet Leader-haughs , and the bony Banks of Yarow . Hic terminus haeret . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 13 ) Leader-haughs and Yarow . To its own proper Tune . WHen Phoebus bright the Azure Skies with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies , herbs , trees , and plants he quick'neth : Among all those he makes his choice , and gladly goes he thorough , With radiant beams , and silver streams , through Leader-Haughs and Yarow . When Aries the day and night in equal length divides , Old frosty Saturn takes the flight no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen , with Mantle green , casts off her deadly sorrow , And vows to dwell with Ceres fell in Leader-Haughs and Yarrow . Pan playing with his Oaten Reed , with shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their flocks to feed , the hills and haughs commending ; With bottle , bag , and staff with knag , and all singing good morrow ; They swear no fields more pleasure yields than Leader-haughs and Yarrow . One house there stands on Leader side , surmounting my descryving , With ease-rooms rare , and windows fair , like Daedalus contriving : Men passing by , do often say , in south it hath no marrow ; It stands as fair on Leader side , as New-work does on Yarrow . A mile below , who list to ride , they'l hear the Mavis singing ; Into St. Leonards Bank she'l bide , sweet Birks her head o're-hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud , with tender throats and narrow , Into St. Leonards Banks do sing as sweetly as in Yarrow . The Lapwing lilteth o're the Lee , with nimble wings she sporteth ; But vows she'l not come near the tree where Philomel resorteth : By break of day the Lark can say , I'le bid you all good-morrow ; I'le yout and yell for I may dwell in Leader-haughs and Yarow . Park , Wanton-walls , and Wooden-Cleugh , the East and Wester Mainses , The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blainslies ; Where Oats are fine , and sold by kind , that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchan , Marr , none better are , than Leader-haughs and Yarow . In Burn-Miln Boge , & White-slede shaws , the fearful Hare she haunteth ; Bridge-baugh & Broad-wood sheil she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth : Yet when she irks , to Kaidslie Birks she runs and sighs for sorrow , That she should leave sweet Leader haughs and cannot win to Yarow . What sweetet music would you hear , than Hounds and Beigles crying ? The Hare waits not , but flees for fear , their hard pursuits defying . But yet her strength it fails at length , no beilding can she borrow At Hags , Cleckmae , nor Sorlesfield , but longs to be at Yarow . For Rock-wood , Rink-wood , Rival , Aimer , still thinking for to view her , But Oh to fail her strength begins , no cunning can rescue her : O're dubb and dyke , o're seugh and syke , she [ ' ] l run the fields all thorough ; Yet ends her days in Leader-haughs , and bids farewell to Yarow . Thou Erslingtonn and Colding-knowes , where Humes had once commanding And Dry Grange with thy milk white Ewes 'twixt Tweed and Leader standing : The birds that flees through Red-path trees and Gledswood Bank all thorough , May chant and sing , sweet Leader-haughs , and the bonny Banks of Yarrow . But Burn cannot his grief assuage , while as his days endureth , To see the changes of his age , which day and time procureth . For many a place stands in hard case , where Burns was blithe besorrow , With Humes that dwelled on Leader side , and Scots that dwelled in Yarow . The Words of Burn the Violer . WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Elegy , no sports and mirds deriding ? It must be fain with lower strain , than it was wont besorrow , To found the praise of Leader-haughs , and the bonny Banks of Yarrow . But Floods have overflown the Banks , the greenish Haughs disgracing , And Trees in Woods grows thin in ranks about the fields defacing . For Waters waxes , Woods does wained , more , if could for sorrow , In rural Verse , I could rehearse , of Leader-haughs and Yarow . But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath , soar saltish tears forth sending . All things Sublunar here on earth are subject to and ending ; So must my Song , though somewhat long , yet late at even and morrow , I'le sighs and sing , sweet Leader-haughs , and the bony Banks of Yarow . Hic terminus haeret . FINIS . 