C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 16 ) TRUE LOVE MURDERED OR A NEW DIALOGUE BETWEEN A Young GENTLEMAN and a MAID of lower Degree . To the Tune of Fortune my Foe . THere was a worthy young Squire , Whom a fair Damesel did love , Ay and it was so entire , That nothing his Fancy could move , She Born of Ordinary Parents . This when his friends did know , Straight ways to set them at variance , Proving their sad overthrow , Son said the diligent Mother , I pray thee come listen to me , For I have considered another , More suitable to thy degree , That thou mayest rise to preferment , She is both virtuous and Fair , A Thousand pound to her Portion , Therefore thy Folly forbear : Oh Mother this love does inflame me , In which my Dear I behold , Therefore I pray you do not blame me , For true love is better then Gold : Might I have wealth out of measure , Nothing my Fancy can move , For I will never Marry for Treasure , Let me have the Creature I love , I can maintain like a Lady , She whom I do much adore , Then having god Riches already , What need I Covet for more , If you give me not on penny , I have a hundreth a year . And if I Marry with any , It shall be with Nansie my Dear : Now Son if your Love be so Rooted , That from her you can not part , Then by me it shall not be disputed , Then take her with all my heart , But she in this was deceitful , As by this ditty you will find . For never was Person more hateful , For Malice remain'd in her mind , Then straight she repaired to the Creature's Vowing to send her away , Yet with a smile she did meet her , Saying dear daughter this day , Let us buy thy atyre , And all other things well provide , For it is my full desire , That thou should be my Sons Bride , Then was the matter contrived , Just as the mother would have , Then into a Captain in private , She sold her to be a slave ; She from old England did send her , Filled with Sorrow and Woe , There was no Soul to defend her , But was compelled to go , But when her Invention was over , Straight she returns to her Son , Freely to him did discover , Perfectly what she had done , When he herd what she had Acted , His Raper he straight did pull forth , Crying like creature Distracted , Saying you ruin'd us both . Then on the point of his Raper : He did immediately fallen , His Life went out like a Taper , This was the Ruin of all : His Mother more then useual , Was of a courteous mind , Money is the root of all evil , Causes contension we find , Then did his Mother outweren , Weary out many a day , While her dear Son lay a Sleeping , In a low Bed of Clay , This was a sorrowful Ditty , She whom He did most adore , Straight to be sent from the Nation , Where he shall never see her more . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 16 ) TRUE LOVE MURDERED OR A NEW DIALOGUE BETWEEN A Young GENTLEMAN and a MAID of lower Degree . To the Tune of Fortune my Foe . THere was a worthy young Squire , Whom a fair Damesel did love , Ay and it was so entire , That nothing his Fancy could move , She Born of Ordinary Parents . This when his friends did know , Straight ways to set them at variance , Proving their sad overthrow , Son said the diligent Mother , I pray thee come listen to me , For I have considered another , More suitable to thy degree , That thou mayest rise to preferment , She is both virtuous and Fair , A Thousand pound to her Portion , Therefore thy Folly forbear : Oh Mother this love does inflame me , In which my Dear I behold , Therefore I pray you do not blame me , For true love is better then Gold : Might I have wealth out of measure , Nothing my Fancy can move , For I will never Marry for Treasure , Let me have the Creature I love , I can maintain like a Lady , She whom I do much adore , Then having god Riches already , What need I Covet for more , If you give me not on penny , I have a hundreth a year . And if I Marry with any , It shall be with Nansie my Dear : Now Son if your Love be so Rooted , That from her you can not part , Then by me it shall not be disputed , Then take her with all my heart , But she in this was deceitful , As by this ditty you will find . For never was Person more hateful , For Malice remain'd in her mind , Then straight she repaired to the Creature's Vowing to send her away , Yet with a smile she did meet her , Saying dear daughter this day , Let us buy thy atyre , And all other things well provide , For it is my full desire , That thou should be my Sons Bride , Then was the matter contrived , Just as the mother would have , Then into a Captain in private , She sold her to be a slave ; She from old England did send her , Filled with Sorrow and Woe , There was no Soul to defend her , But was compelled to go , But when her Invention was over , Straight she returns to her Son , Freely to him did discover , Perfectly what she had done , When he herd what she had Acted , His Raper he straight did pull forth , Crying like creature Distracted , Saying you ruin'd us both . Then on the point of his Raper : He did immediately fallen , His Life went out like a Taper , This was the Ruin of all : His Mother more then useual , Was of a courteous mind , Money is the root of all evil , Causes contension we find , Then did his Mother outweren , Weary out many a day , While her dear Son lay a Sleeping , In a low Bed of Clay , This was a sorrowful Ditty , She whom He did most adore , Straight to be sent from the Nation , Where he shall never see her more . FINIS . 