C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 123 ) R-V The last SPEECH and dying Words of Thomas Vert , who was Execute at Durham the 12th August 1730 , for the Murdering of his own Sister , for which he was try'd , condemn - ned and Execute , and being cut down from the Gallows and laid in his Coffin , his Mother perceiving him to breath , upon using of proper Means he was brought to Life ; then he de - clared to the Reverend Mr. Nixson the Happiness of the Blessed , and the miserable State of the damn'd in Hell . Lastly , how he was the second Time Execute . YOU tender Parents all both far and near , And all you that have god Children dear , Come buy this little Book , a Guide to be , To such as do run on in Vanity . In Durham now is living there , A Gentleman that had two Children dear ; The one a Daughter beautiful and fair , Th' other a Son , whom he did love so dear . The Girl she was of Temper meek and mild , The Son to wicked Courses was inclin'd . For in his infant Years he'd curse and swear , which fill'd his Parents Hearts with grief and care . This Girl was ten Years younger than the Son , Seeing her Brother thus in since to run : Tho' she was but a young Infant in Years , Thus to her Brother she did speak with Tears . Dear Brother , darling of my Father's Heart , Hear what a Child does into you impart , If you do thus run in this course of since , My tender Parents to their Grave you'll bring . Each Day the heavenly God above you dare , Your whole Delight it is to curse and swear ; My Father's Substance you do daily waste , For to maintain your Actions most unchaste . My Soul does mourn to see my Mother's Tears , My Father's Heart it is oppressed with Fears , lest that some sad untimely Death you die , And so be lost to all Eternity . When he did hear the tender Babe say so , He with his Hand did strike her such a Blow , That on the Ground alas ! she Breathless lay , Cursing and Swearing then he went away . Then soon her Mother came into the Room , Seeing the Child lie dead upon the Ground , Strangely surpiz'd , did for the Doctor send , And call'd for Help then from her dearest Friend . But all in vain , they found her Life was gone , And none did know who had the Murder done ; But plainly to them all it did appear , That by some cruel Hands she murdered were , But now the great Almighty brought to pass , This Thing so hateful in his Sighed at last , And he to Justice soon was brought and try'd , And a true Penitent at last he died . Three Nights after this sad Thing it was done , He was drinking at and Alehouse in the Town , Having a Strumpet in his Company , With whom he had a Mind that Night to lie . Wallowing in his filthy vain Delight , About the hour of Eleven at Night , The Room did in a blazing Light appear And heavenly Music sounded in his Ear . He said , What heavenly Host sure can this be , That comes to visit such a Wretch as me ? And to his great Surptize there did appear The Apparition of his Sister dear . Her Clothes more white than driven Snow they were , And round her Shoulders hung her flexen Hair ; Seeming attended with a heavenly Tribe , That gently mov'd along to his Bed side . He said , Now in the Name of God I pray , From whence came you , and why'd you trouble me . with that a Voice did answer him again , I am the Babe that by your Hands was slave . Repent , for now your Time is drawing near , The fatal Day on which you are to die ; Think on the Promises which was made , If you repent You still Your Soul may save . My tender Parents do lament for me , But I am blessed to all Eternity : Make now much of the Moments You have here , And crave a Blessing of Your Parents dear . Thus spoke the Vision ; he did no more see , He straightway pray'd , and fell upon his Knee , First , asking Pardon of the Lord on high , lest he was lost to all Eternity . Soon as the Morning Daylight did appear , To his distressed Parents did repair , And then before them on his Knees did fallen , And freely did confess the Truth of all . His Parents wept , and rung their Hands full soar ; Saying , sure none e'er was so oppressed before ; The blessed'st Babe that ever yet drew breath , By thy base Hands is snatch'd from off the Earth . Now of you both we soon must be depriv'd , The Time's but short that you have to survive , For tho' we are your tender Perents dear , We are bound this heinous Murder to declare . with Grief they did disclose it instantly , And he was try'd , cast , and condemn'd to die , Such a repenting Soul was never seen , Daily imploring Mercy for his Sins . Then for his aged Father he did send , Father he said , my sad and fatal End Is drawing nigh , and therefore let me have , My Father's Blessing , that is all I crave . Father , what must I do my Soul to save , Since there is no Repentance in the Grave , My Time is short that I have here to dwell , Lord keep me from the burning Lake of Hell , while Tears like Fountains trickled down his Face , His Father said , My Child this Spark of Grace , Does cheer my Soul , I'll join with thee in prayer , And hope the Lord will our Petition hear . Father , A Child's Disobedience is a heinous since , And strictly does the Lord forbid that Thing , Honour your Parents , and your Days shall be Long in the Land which God does give to thee . But I've the holy Laws of God transgress'd , My tender Sister I of Life bereft ; I'm old in since , altho' in Years but young , Father , I have been a disobedient Son. ( 2 ) Son , I will pray to God both Night and Day , For thee while in this world you have to stay , And I do hope the Lord will pardon thee , And therefore now in Prayer join with me . O blessed Lord , great is a Parent's care , In Mercy now , my Father's Prayer hear , Then humbly on their Knees they both fell down The mournful Father and the dying Son. while they were steadfast at their fervent Prayer , with wringing Hands came in his mother dear . Crying , 'my Son , Oh Lord , what must I do ! 'I've been a tender mother unto you . 'with you my Child , I once thought I was blessed , 'And tenderly I nursed you at my Breas 'But little thought my tender Care wou'd be , 'To bring you up unto the Gallows Tree . Thousand of Tears among them there was shed His Parents look'd like People almost dead ; Kissing his dying Lips , they must away , Time won't permit them longer for to stay . with him two Highway men there was to die : Thousands did go to see them passing by , And when they came unto the fatal Tree , He turn'd himself about and thus did say : 'Now young men all , that's in your blooming years 'Behold a wretch surrounded with his cares , 'if I my tender Parents had obey [ ? ] worser , 'in Satan's Snares I had ne'er been betray'd . 'my tender Sister told me of my since , 'And of the wretched State my Soul was in ; 'For which , the fatal Blow to her I gave , 'which sent her down into the silent Grave . I could not bear the word of God to hear , 'The Advice of my dear mother could not bear ; ' [ ? ] now repents of all the Crime I've done , 'And now I die , [ ? ] my Glass is almost run . when thus he spoke , the Cart it drew away , And he resign'd his Breath upon the Tree ; After some time the Body was cut down , And to his Father's House was carried Home . Then as they for his Funeral did prepare , One Day his sad and mournful mother dear , Stood weeping by his Coffin where he lay , And Kissing of his lips tho' cold as Clay . She quickly did perceive him to draw breath His Eyes he open'd and thse words express 'Alas ! where am I now , my Saviour dear , 'Am I returned back to this world of Care . His Mother overjoyed away did run , And told his Father he to Life was come , His Father said , 'I'm griev'd this News to hear , 'For he will still be punished I fear . His Father goes the Truth of this to see , And found it so just as his Wife did say ; They laid him in a Bed , and did prepare , Rich Cordials then his Spirits for to cheer . Being reviv'd , he thus spoke to his Friends , 'I beg you for a Mininster will send ; 'For I some wonders have for to declare , 'Sinners to teach the word of God to fear . The Reverend Mr. Nixon being come , Amaz'd to see the wonders that was done , 'He asked the Youth , how Things with him might be 'when he was launch'd into Eternity . He said 'Sir , for to tell the Happiness 'My Soul's been in , I cannot it express , 'But let the Atheist be assur'd hell find 'A great tremendous God to judge mankind . 'There surely is a burning Lake in HC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 123 ) R-V The last SPEECH and dying Words of Thomas Vert , who was Execute at Durham the 12th August 1730 , for the Murdering of his own Sister , for which he was try'd , condemn - ned and Execute , and being cut down from the Gallows and laid in his Coffin , his Mother perceiving him to breath , upon using of proper Means he was brought to Life ; then he de - clared to the Reverend Mr. Nixson the Happiness of the Blessed , and the miserable State of the damn'd in Hell . Lastly , how he was the second Time Execute . YOU tender Parents all both far and near , And all you that have god Children dear , Come buy this little Book , a Guide to be , To such as do run on in Vanity . In Durham now is living there , A Gentleman that had two Children dear ; The one a Daughter beautiful and fair , Th' other a Son , whom he did love so dear . The Girl she was of Temper meek and mild , The Son to wicked Courses was inclin'd . For in his infant Years he'd curse and swear , which fill'd his Parents Hearts with grief and care . This Girl was ten Years younger than the Son , Seeing her Brother thus in since to run : Tho' she was but a young Infant in Years , Thus to her Brother she did speak with Tears . Dear Brother , darling of my Father's Heart , Hear what a Child does into you impart , If you do thus run in this course of since , My tender Parents to their Grave you'll bring . Each Day the heavenly God above you dare , Your whole Delight it is to curse and swear ; My Father's Substance you do daily waste , For to maintain your Actions most unchaste . My Soul does mourn to see my Mother's Tears , My Father's Heart it is oppressed with Fears , lest that some sad untimely Death you die , And so be lost to all Eternity . When he did hear the tender Babe say so , He with his Hand did strike her such a Blow , That on the Ground alas ! she Breathless lay , Cursing and Swearing then he went away . Then soon her Mother came into the Room , Seeing the Child lie dead upon the Ground , Strangely surpiz'd , did for the Doctor send , And call'd for Help then from her dearest Friend . But all in vain , they found her Life was gone , And none did know who had the Murder done ; But plainly to them all it did appear , That by some cruel Hands she murdered were , But now the great Almighty brought to pass , This Thing so hateful in his Sighed at last , And he to Justice soon was brought and try'd , And a true Penitent at last he died . Three Nights after this sad Thing it was done , He was drinking at and Alehouse in the Town , Having a Strumpet in his Company , With whom he had a Mind that Night to lie . Wallowing in his filthy vain Delight , About the hour of Eleven at Night , The Room did in a blazing Light appear And heavenly Music sounded in his Ear . He said , What heavenly Host sure can this be , That comes to visit such a Wretch as me ? And to his great Surptize there did appear The Apparition of his Sister dear . Her Clothes more white than driven Snow they were , And round her Shoulders hung her flexen Hair ; Seeming attended with a heavenly Tribe , That gently mov'd along to his Bed side . He said , Now in the Name of God I pray , From whence came you , and why'd you trouble me . with that a Voice did answer him again , I am the Babe that by your Hands was slave . Repent , for now your Time is drawing near , The fatal Day on which you are to die ; Think on the Promises which was made , If you repent You still Your Soul may save . My tender Parents do lament for me , But I am blessed to all Eternity : Make now much of the Moments You have here , And crave a Blessing of Your Parents dear . Thus spoke the Vision ; he did no more see , He straightway pray'd , and fell upon his Knee , First , asking Pardon of the Lord on high , lest he was lost to all Eternity . Soon as the Morning Daylight did appear , To his distressed Parents did repair , And then before them on his Knees did fallen , And freely did confess the Truth of all . His Parents wept , and rung their Hands full soar ; Saying , sure none e'er was so oppressed before ; The blessed'st Babe that ever yet drew breath , By thy base Hands is snatch'd from off the Earth . Now of you both we soon must be depriv'd , The Time's but short that you have to survive , For tho' we are your tender Perents dear , We are bound this heinous Murder to declare . with Grief they did disclose it instantly , And he was try'd , cast , and condemn'd to die , Such a repenting Soul was never seen , Daily imploring Mercy for his Sins . Then for his aged Father he did send , Father he said , my sad and fatal End Is drawing nigh , and therefore let me have , My Father's Blessing , that is all I crave . Father , what must I do my Soul to save , Since there is no Repentance in the Grave , My Time is short that I have here to dwell , Lord keep me from the burning Lake of Hell , while Tears like Fountains trickled down his Face , His Father said , My Child this Spark of Grace , Does cheer my Soul , I'll join with thee in prayer , And hope the Lord will our Petition hear . Father , A Child's Disobedience is a heinous since , And strictly does the Lord forbid that Thing , Honour your Parents , and your Days shall be Long in the Land which God does give to thee . But I've the holy Laws of God transgress'd , My tender Sister I of Life bereft ; I'm old in since , altho' in Years but young , Father , I have been a disobedient Son. ( 2 ) Son , I will pray to God both Night and Day , For thee while in this world you have to stay , And I do hope the Lord will pardon thee , And therefore now in Prayer join with me . O blessed Lord , great is a Parent's care , In Mercy now , my Father's Prayer hear , Then humbly on their Knees they both fell down The mournful Father and the dying Son. while they were steadfast at their fervent Prayer , with wringing Hands came in his mother dear . Crying , 'my Son , Oh Lord , what must I do ! 'I've been a tender mother unto you . 'with you my Child , I once thought I was blessed , 'And tenderly I nursed you at my Breas 'But little thought my tender Care wou'd be , 'To bring you up unto the Gallows Tree . Thousand of Tears among them there was shed His Parents look'd like People almost dead ; Kissing his dying Lips , they must away , Time won't permit them longer for to stay . with him two Highway men there was to die : Thousands did go to see them passing by , And when they came unto the fatal Tree , He turn'd himself about and thus did say : 'Now young men all , that's in your blooming years 'Behold a wretch surrounded with his cares , 'if I my tender Parents had obey [ ? ] worser , 'in Satan's Snares I had ne'er been betray'd . 'my tender Sister told me of my since , 'And of the wretched State my Soul was in ; 'For which , the fatal Blow to her I gave , 'which sent her down into the silent Grave . I could not bear the word of God to hear , 'The Advice of my dear mother could not bear ; ' [ ? ] now repents of all the Crime I've done , 'And now I die , [ ? ] my Glass is almost run . when thus he spoke , the Cart it drew away , And he resign'd his Breath upon the Tree ; After some time the Body was cut down , And to his Father's House was carried Home . Then as they for his Funeral did prepare , One Day his sad and mournful mother dear , Stood weeping by his Coffin where he lay , And Kissing of his lips tho' cold as Clay . She quickly did perceive him to draw breath His Eyes he open'd and thse words express 'Alas ! where am I now , my Saviour dear , 'Am I returned back to this world of Care . His Mother overjoyed away did run , And told his Father he to Life was come , His Father said , 'I'm griev'd this News to hear , 'For he will still be punished I fear . His Father goes the Truth of this to see , And found it so just as his Wife did say ; They laid him in a Bed , and did prepare , Rich Cordials then his Spirits for to cheer . Being reviv'd , he thus spoke to his Friends , 'I beg you for a Mininster will send ; 'For I some wonders have for to declare , 'Sinners to teach the word of God to fear . The Reverend Mr. Nixon being come , Amaz'd to see the wonders that was done , 'He asked the Youth , how Things with him might be 'when he was launch'd into Eternity . He said 'Sir , for to tell the Happiness 'My Soul's been in , I cannot it express , 'But let the Atheist be assur'd hell find 'A great tremendous God to judge mankind . 'There surely is a burning Lake in Hell , 'And Heaven where godly Saints and Angels dwell ; 'But disobedient Children ne'er come there , 'Nor such as do profanely Curse and Swear . 'By true Repentance I my Pardon gain'd , ''The glorious heavenly Promise I obtain'd : 'But my Companions that did die with me , 'I see them in the Gulf of misery . 'And now my Parents dear , grieve not in vain , 'Your Loss it is my everlasting Gain : 'And tho' my morning Sun goes down at Noon , 'All Flesh must die , and God does know how soon . 'Father , Petition not for me I pray , 'The second Time I must go to the Tree , 'I only was sent back for to declare , 'These Things to Youth that Disobedient are . The Father being tender of his Son , The King acquainted of what had been done , In hope's a Pardon that he might obtain , But as 'twas murder , was deny'd the same . Again then he must executed be , So carried was in's Coffin to the Tree There willingly embrac'd the fatal Hour , while Tears for him did many Thousands shower . His Parents patiently their Suffering boar , In hope's he does enjoy great Heaven's store ; I hope this will a fatal warning be , To those that do their Parents disobey . FINIS . ell , 'And Heaven where godly Saints and Angels dwell ; 'But disobedient Children ne'er come there , 'Nor such as do profanely Curse and Swear . 'By true Repentance I my Pardon gain'd , ''The glorious heavenly Promise I obtain'd : 'But my Companions that did die with me , 'I see them in the Gulf of misery . 'And now my Parents dear , grieve not in vain , 'Your Loss it is my everlasting Gain : 'And tho' my morning Sun goes down at Noon , 'All Flesh must die , and God does know how soon . 'Father , Petition not for me I pray , 'The second Time I must go to the Tree , 'I only was sent back for to declare , 'These Things to Youth that Disobedient are . The Father being tender of his Son , The King acquainted of what had been done , In hope's a Pardon that he might obtain , But as 'twas murder , was deny'd the same . Again then he must executed be , So carried was in's Coffin to the Tree There willingly embrac'd the fatal Hour , while Tears for him did many Thousands shower . His Parents patiently their Suffering boar , In hope's he does enjoy great Heaven's store ; I hope this will a fatal warning be , To those that do their Parents disobey . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 123 ) R-V The last SPEECH and dying Words of Thomas Vert , who was Execute at Durham the 12th August 1730 , for the Murdering of his own Sister , for which he was try'd , condemn - ned and Execute , and being cut down from the Gallows and laid in his Coffin , his Mother perceiving him to breath , upon using of proper Means he was brought to Life ; then he de - clared to the Reverend Mr. Nixson the Happiness of the Blessed , and the miserable State of the damn'd in Hell . Lastly , how he was the second Time Execute . YOU tender Parents all both far and near , And all you that have god Children dear , Come buy this little Book , a Guide to be , To such as do run on in Vanity . In Durham now is living there , A Gentleman that had two Children dear ; The one a Daughter beautiful and fair , Th' other a Son , whom he did love so dear . The Girl she was of Temper meek and mild , The Son to wicked Courses was inclin'd . For in his infant Years he'd curse and swear , which fill'd his Parents Hearts with grief and care . This Girl was ten Years younger than the Son , Seeing her Brother thus in since to run : Tho' she was but a young Infant in Years , Thus to her Brother she did speak with Tears . Dear Brother , darling of my Father's Heart , Hear what a Child does into you impart , If you do thus run in this course of since , My tender Parents to their Grave you'll bring . Each Day the heavenly God above you dare , Your whole Delight it is to curse and swear ; My Father's Substance you do daily waste , For to maintain your Actions most unchaste . My Soul does mourn to see my Mother's Tears , My Father's Heart it is oppressed with Fears , lest that some sad untimely Death you die , And so be lost to all Eternity . When he did hear the tender Babe say so , He with his Hand did strike her such a Blow , That on the Ground alas ! she Breathless lay , Cursing and Swearing then he went away . Then soon her Mother came into the Room , Seeing the Child lie dead upon the Ground , Strangely surpiz'd , did for the Doctor send , And call'd for Help then from her dearest Friend . But all in vain , they found her Life was gone , And none did know who had the Murder done ; But plainly to them all it did appear , That by some cruel Hands she murdered were , But now the great Almighty brought to pass , This Thing so hateful in his Sighed at last , And he to Justice soon was brought and try'd , And a true Penitent at last he died . Three Nights after this sad Thing it was done , He was drinking at and Alehouse in the Town , Having a Strumpet in his Company , With whom he had a Mind that Night to lie . Wallowing in his filthy vain Delight , About the hour of Eleven at Night , The Room did in a blazing Light appear And heavenly Music sounded in his Ear . He said , What heavenly Host sure can this be , That comes to visit such a Wretch as me ? And to his great Surptize there did appear The Apparition of his Sister dear . Her Clothes more white than driven Snow they were , And round her Shoulders hung her flexen Hair ; Seeming attended with a heavenly Tribe , That gently mov'd along to his Bed side . He said , Now in the Name of God I pray , From whence came you , and why'd you trouble me . with that a Voice did answer him again , I am the Babe that by your Hands was slave . Repent , for now your Time is drawing near , The fatal Day on which you are to die ; Think on the Promises which was made , If you repent You still Your Soul may save . My tender Parents do lament for me , But I am blessed to all Eternity : Make now much of the Moments You have here , And crave a Blessing of Your Parents dear . Thus spoke the Vision ; he did no more see , He straightway pray'd , and fell upon his Knee , First , asking Pardon of the Lord on high , lest he was lost to all Eternity . Soon as the Morning Daylight did appear , To his distressed Parents did repair , And then before them on his Knees did fallen , And freely did confess the Truth of all . His Parents wept , and rung their Hands full soar ; Saying , sure none e'er was so oppressed before ; The blessed'st Babe that ever yet drew breath , By thy base Hands is snatch'd from off the Earth . Now of you both we soon must be depriv'd , The Time's but short that you have to survive , For tho' we are your tender Perents dear , We are bound this heinous Murder to declare . with Grief they did disclose it instantly , And he was try'd , cast , and condemn'd to die , Such a repenting Soul was never seen , Daily imploring Mercy for his Sins . Then for his aged Father he did send , Father he said , my sad and fatal End Is drawing nigh , and therefore let me have , My Father's Blessing , that is all I crave . Father , what must I do my Soul to save , Since there is no Repentance in the Grave , My Time is short that I have here to dwell , Lord keep me from the burning Lake of Hell , while Tears like Fountains trickled down his Face , His Father said , My Child this Spark of Grace , Does cheer my Soul , I'll join with thee in prayer , And hope the Lord will our Petition hear . Father , A Child's Disobedience is a heinous since , And strictly does the Lord forbid that Thing , Honour your Parents , and your Days shall be Long in the Land which God does give to thee . But I've the holy Laws of God transgress'd , My tender Sister I of Life bereft ; I'm old in since , altho' in Years but young , Father , I have been a disobedient Son. Son , ( 2 ) Son , I will pray to God both Night and Day , For thee while in this world you have to stay , And I do hope the Lord will pardon thee , And therefore now in Prayer join with me . O blessed Lord , great is a Parent's care , In Mercy now , my Father's Prayer hear , Then humbly on their Knees they both fell down The mournful Father and the dying Son. while they were steadfast at their fervent Prayer , with wringing Hands came in his mother dear . Crying , 'my Son , Oh Lord , what must I do ! 'I've been a tender mother unto you . 'with you my Child , I once thought I was blessed , 'And tenderly I nursed you at my Breas 'But little thought my tender Care wou'd be , 'To bring you up unto the Gallows Tree . Thousand of Tears among them there was shed His Parents look'd like People almost dead ; Kissing his dying Lips , they must away , Time won't permit them longer for to stay . with him two Highway men there was to die : Thousands did go to see them passing by , And when they came unto the fatal Tree , He turn'd himself about and thus did say : 'Now young men all , that's in your blooming years 'Behold a wretch surrounded with his cares , 'if I my tender Parents had obey [ ? ] worser , 'in Satan's Snares I had ne'er been betray'd . 'my tender Sister told me of my since , 'And of the wretched State my Soul was in ; 'For which , the fatal Blow to her I gave , 'which sent her down into the silent Grave . I could not bear the word of God to hear , 'The Advice of my dear mother could not bear ; ' [ ? ] now repents of all the Crime I've done , 'And now I die , [ ? ] my Glass is almost run . when thus he spoke , the Cart it drew away , And he resign'd his Breath upon the Tree ; After some time the Body was cut down , And to his Father's House was carried Home . Then as they for his Funeral did prepare , One Day his sad and mournful mother dear , Stood weeping by his Coffin where he lay , And Kissing of his lips tho' cold as Clay . She quickly did perceive him to draw breath His Eyes he open'd and thse words express 'Alas ! where am I now , my Saviour dear , 'Am I returned back to this world of Care . His Mother overjoyed away did run , And told his Father he to Life was come , His Father said , 'I'm griev'd this News to hear , 'For he will still be punished I fear . His Father goes the Truth of this to see , And found it so just as his Wife did say ; They laid him in a Bed , and did prepare , Rich Cordials then his Spirits for to cheer . Being reviv'd , he thus spoke to his Friends , 'I beg you for a Mininster will send ; 'For I some wonders have for to declare , 'Sinners to teach the word of God to fear . The Reverend Mr. Nixon being come , Amaz'd to see the wonders that was done , 'He asked the Youth , how Things with him might be 'when he was launch'd into Eternity . He said 'Sir , for to tell the Happiness 'My Soul's been in , I cannot it express , 'But let the Atheist be assur'd hell find 'A great tremendous God to judge mankind . 'There surely is a burning LakeC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 123 ) R-V The last SPEECH and dying Words of Thomas Vert , who was Execute at Durham the 12th August 1730 , for the Murdering of his own Sister , for which he was try'd , condemn - ned and Execute , and being cut down from the Gallows and laid in his Coffin , his Mother perceiving him to breath , upon using of proper Means he was brought to Life ; then he de - clared to the Reverend Mr. Nixson the Happiness of the Blessed , and the miserable State of the damn'd in Hell . Lastly , how he was the second Time Execute . YOU tender Parents all both far and near , And all you that have god Children dear , Come buy this little Book , a Guide to be , To such as do run on in Vanity . In Durham now is living there , A Gentleman that had two Children dear ; The one a Daughter beautiful and fair , Th' other a Son , whom he did love so dear . The Girl she was of Temper meek and mild , The Son to wicked Courses was inclin'd . For in his infant Years he'd curse and swear , which fill'd his Parents Hearts with grief and care . This Girl was ten Years younger than the Son , Seeing her Brother thus in since to run : Tho' she was but a young Infant in Years , Thus to her Brother she did speak with Tears . Dear Brother , darling of my Father's Heart , Hear what a Child does into you impart , If you do thus run in this course of since , My tender Parents to their Grave you'll bring . Each Day the heavenly God above you dare , Your whole Delight it is to curse and swear ; My Father's Substance you do daily waste , For to maintain your Actions most unchaste . My Soul does mourn to see my Mother's Tears , My Father's Heart it is oppressed with Fears , lest that some sad untimely Death you die , And so be lost to all Eternity . When he did hear the tender Babe say so , He with his Hand did strike her such a Blow , That on the Ground alas ! she Breathless lay , Cursing and Swearing then he went away . Then soon her Mother came into the Room , Seeing the Child lie dead upon the Ground , Strangely surpiz'd , did for the Doctor send , And call'd for Help then from her dearest Friend . But all in vain , they found her Life was gone , And none did know who had the Murder done ; But plainly to them all it did appear , That by some cruel Hands she murdered were , But now the great Almighty brought to pass , This Thing so hateful in his Sighed at last , And he to Justice soon was brought and try'd , And a true Penitent at last he died . Three Nights after this sad Thing it was done , He was drinking at and Alehouse in the Town , Having a Strumpet in his Company , With whom he had a Mind that Night to lie . Wallowing in his filthy vain Delight , About the hour of Eleven at Night , The Room did in a blazing Light appear And heavenly Music sounded in his Ear . He said , What heavenly Host sure can this be , That comes to visit such a Wretch as me ? And to his great Surptize there did appear The Apparition of his Sister dear . Her Clothes more white than driven Snow they were , And round her Shoulders hung her flexen Hair ; Seeming attended with a heavenly Tribe , That gently mov'd along to his Bed side . He said , Now in the Name of God I pray , From whence came you , and why'd you trouble me . with that a Voice did answer him again , I am the Babe that by your Hands was slave . Repent , for now your Time is drawing near , The fatal Day on which you are to die ; Think on the Promises which was made , If you repent You still Your Soul may save . My tender Parents do lament for me , But I am blessed to all Eternity : Make now much of the Moments You have here , And crave a Blessing of Your Parents dear . Thus spoke the Vision ; he did no more see , He straightway pray'd , and fell upon his Knee , First , asking Pardon of the Lord on high , lest he was lost to all Eternity . Soon as the Morning Daylight did appear , To his distressed Parents did repair , And then before them on his Knees did fallen , And freely did confess the Truth of all . His Parents wept , and rung their Hands full soar ; Saying , sure none e'er was so oppressed before ; The blessed'st Babe that ever yet drew breath , By thy base Hands is snatch'd from off the Earth . Now of you both we soon must be depriv'd , The Time's but short that you have to survive , For tho' we are your tender Perents dear , We are bound this heinous Murder to declare . with Grief they did disclose it instantly , And he was try'd , cast , and condemn'd to die , Such a repenting Soul was never seen , Daily imploring Mercy for his Sins . Then for his aged Father he did send , Father he said , my sad and fatal End Is drawing nigh , and therefore let me have , My Father's Blessing , that is all I crave . Father , what must I do my Soul to save , Since there is no Repentance in the Grave , My Time is short that I have here to dwell , Lord keep me from the burning Lake of Hell , while Tears like Fountains trickled down his Face , His Father said , My Child this Spark of Grace , Does cheer my Soul , I'll join with thee in prayer , And hope the Lord will our Petition hear . Father , A Child's Disobedience is a heinous since , And strictly does the Lord forbid that Thing , Honour your Parents , and your Days shall be Long in the Land which God does give to thee . But I've the holy Laws of God transgress'd , My tender Sister I of Life bereft ; I'm old in since , altho' in Years but young , Father , I have been a disobedient Son. Son , ( 2 ) Son , I will pray to God both Night and Day , For thee while in this world you have to stay , And I do hope the Lord will pardon thee , And therefore now in Prayer join with me . O blessed Lord , great is a Parent's care , In Mercy now , my Father's Prayer hear , Then humbly on their Knees they both fell down The mournful Father and the dying Son. while they were steadfast at their fervent Prayer , with wringing Hands came in his mother dear . Crying , 'my Son , Oh Lord , what must I do ! 'I've been a tender mother unto you . 'with you my Child , I once thought I was blessed , 'And tenderly I nursed you at my Breas 'But little thought my tender Care wou'd be , 'To bring you up unto the Gallows Tree . Thousand of Tears among them there was shed His Parents look'd like People almost dead ; Kissing his dying Lips , they must away , Time won't permit them longer for to stay . with him two Highway men there was to die : Thousands did go to see them passing by , And when they came unto the fatal Tree , He turn'd himself about and thus did say : 'Now young men all , that's in your blooming years 'Behold a wretch surrounded with his cares , 'if I my tender Parents had obey [ ? ] worser , 'in Satan's Snares I had ne'er been betray'd . 'my tender Sister told me of my since , 'And of the wretched State my Soul was in ; 'For which , the fatal Blow to her I gave , 'which sent her down into the silent Grave . I could not bear the word of God to hear , 'The Advice of my dear mother could not bear ; ' [ ? ] now repents of all the Crime I've done , 'And now I die , [ ? ] my Glass is almost run . when thus he spoke , the Cart it drew away , And he resign'd his Breath upon the Tree ; After some time the Body was cut down , And to his Father's House was carried Home . Then as they for his Funeral did prepare , One Day his sad and mournful mother dear , Stood weeping by his Coffin where he lay , And Kissing of his lips tho' cold as Clay . She quickly did perceive him to draw breath His Eyes he open'd and thse words express 'Alas ! where am I now , my Saviour dear , 'Am I returned back to this world of Care . His Mother overjoyed away did run , And told his Father he to Life was come , His Father said , 'I'm griev'd this News to hear , 'For he will still be punished I fear . His Father goes the Truth of this to see , And found it so just as his Wife did say ; They laid him in a Bed , and did prepare , Rich Cordials then his Spirits for to cheer . Being reviv'd , he thus spoke to his Friends , 'I beg you for a Mininster will send ; 'For I some wonders have for to declare , 'Sinners to teach the word of God to fear . The Reverend Mr. Nixon being come , Amaz'd to see the wonders that was done , 'He asked the Youth , how Things with him might be 'when he was launch'd into Eternity . He said 'Sir , for to tell the Happiness 'My Soul's been in , I cannot it express , 'But let the Atheist be assur'd hell find 'A great tremendous God to judge mankind . 'There surely is a burning Lake in Hell , 'And Heaven where godly Saints and Angels dwell ; 'But disobedient Children ne'er come there , 'Nor such as do profanely Curse and Swear . 'By true Repentance I my Pardon gain'd , ''The glorious heavenly Promise I obtain'd : 'But my Companions that did die with me , 'I see them in the Gulf of misery . 'And now my Parents dear , grieve not in vain , 'Your Loss it is my everlasting Gain : 'And tho' my morning Sun goes down at Noon , 'All Flesh must die , and God does know how soon . 'Father , Petition not for me I pray , 'The second Time I must go to the Tree , 'I only was sent back for to declare , 'These Things to Youth that Disobedient are . The Father being tender of his Son , The King acquainted of what had been done , In hope's a Pardon that he might obtain , But as 'twas murder , was deny'd the same . Again then he must executed be , So carried was in's Coffin to the Tree There willingly embrac'd the fatal Hour , while Tears for him did many Thousands shower . His Parents patiently their Suffering boar , In hope's he does enjoy great Heaven's store ; I hope this will a fatal warning be , To those that do their Parents disobey . FINIS . in Hell , 'And Heaven where godly Saints and Angels dwell ; 'But disobedient Children ne'er come there , 'Nor such as do profanely Curse and Swear . 'By true Repentance I my Pardon gain'd , ''The glorious heavenly Promise I obtain'd : 'But my Companions that did die with me , 'I see them in the Gulf of misery . 'And now my Parents dear , grieve not in vain , 'Your Loss it is my everlasting Gain : 'And tho' my morning Sun goes down at Noon , 'All Flesh must die , and God does know how soon . 'Father , Petition not for me I pray , 'The second Time I must go to the Tree , 'I only was sent back for to declare , 'These Things to Youth that Disobedient are . The Father being tender of his Son , The King acquainted of what had been done , In hope's a Pardon that he might obtain , But as 'twas murder , was deny'd the same . Again then he must executed be , So carried was in's Coffin to the Tree There willingly embrac'd the fatal Hour , while Tears for him did many Thousands shower . His Parents patiently their Suffering boar , In hope's he does enjoy great Heaven's store ; I hope this will a fatal warning be , To those that do their Parents disobey . FINIS . 