C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 22 ) Captain Gordon's Welcome Home , a New Song in Praise of his taking the French Privateers , and a Rich prize . A New Song , To and Excellent New Tune . Hark I hear the Cannons Roar . NOW Brave Captain Gordon's come , And brought more Prizes with him home Let's Drink a Cup full to the brim , In a Health to Captain Gordon , Because where ever he appears , He clears Our Coasts of Privateers , Makes Merchant Ships Trade without fears Through out the Northern Ocean . Since he his Commission god , He's prov'd a Stout and Valiant Sco Let every one then Drink a Pot In a Health to Captain Gordon : Because where ever he appears , He clears Our Coasts of Privateers Make Merchant Ships Trade without fears , Through out the Northern Ocean . Now Albion , I say Rejoice , Lift up your long dejected Voice , And with a brave Melodious Voice In praise of Captain Gordon ; Who does dispel Our Clouds of Fears , And saves Our Ships from Privateers ; Who brings into Our Lothian Peers . From th' North Meall in Abundance . French Privateers dare not appear , To put Our Coasts into a steer , Our Meal Barks they dare not come near , Because of Our Brave Gordon ; So that Malt and Meal do both abound , Therefore let their Healths go Merrily round And sing their Praise with a joyful found , That Sail with Captain Gordon . Come all who wish old Scotland well , Glad Tidings I shall to you tell , Of late upon our Coast besel , By means of Captain Gordon . Great and Rich Prizes are brought here , Beside a second Privateer , Whose Valve plainly does appear To be near half a Million Of Sterling pounds . so that I hope . We'r almost alike with the English Fop , Who did our Africk Annandale stop , Into the Southern Ocean ; Let's therefore in good Wine and Beer , Drink a Health both far and near , Not only this but every year : To Our Brave Captain Gordon . Take courage then brave Scottish Men , Fear not the threats of the Southern , Although you were but one to ten , You'r able them to order . Let Zeal then for your Country's good , Add to your Valour and Manhood , You need not fear that Englands Flood , Dare venture on your Border . The time now seems for to approach , When Scotland shall come off in Coach , And those that on her do encroach : Be driven into Confusion : Let us then no more then Subject be , Unto proud England's Monarchy , Nor made Slaves by their Tyranny In suffering their Intrusion . Too , too long we have silent been , Too many abuses have we seen , Since Our King did Succeed their Queen ; And both Lands made and Union . Yet England still to Scotland broke . In every thing they undertook , Designing to keep's under Yoke And void of their Communion . Now since that Heaven hath set us free Strive to maintain your Liberty . And suffer no more slavery But let's unite together , With Heart and Hand firmly to Stand , In defence of this Ancient Land That they may you no more command , Who would deceive their Brother . So shall we live in joy and peace , And happy make Our future raze That it may be told in each place , Scotland Renews Her Honour , By keeping close to our Ancient Right , And Liberty , with all her might . While Sun and Moon do give their Light Let Scots Men show their Valour . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 22 ) Captain Gordon's Welcome Home , a New Song in Praise of his taking the French Privateers , and a Rich prize . A New Song , To and Excellent New Tune . Hark I hear the Cannons Roar . NOW Brave Captain Gordon's come , And brought more Prizes with him home Let's Drink a Cup full to the brim , In a Health to Captain Gordon , Because where ever he appears , He clears Our Coasts of Privateers , Makes Merchant Ships Trade without fears Through out the Northern Ocean . Since he his Commission god , He's prov'd a Stout and Valiant Sco Let every one then Drink a Pot In a Health to Captain Gordon : Because where ever he appears , He clears Our Coasts of Privateers Make Merchant Ships Trade without fears , Through out the Northern Ocean . Now Albion , I say Rejoice , Lift up your long dejected Voice , And with a brave Melodious Voice In praise of Captain Gordon ; Who does dispel Our Clouds of Fears , And saves Our Ships from Privateers ; Who brings into Our Lothian Peers . From th' North Meall in Abundance . French Privateers dare not appear , To put Our Coasts into a steer , Our Meal Barks they dare not come near , Because of Our Brave Gordon ; So that Malt and Meal do both abound , Therefore let their Healths go Merrily round And sing their Praise with a joyful found , That Sail with Captain Gordon . Come all who wish old Scotland well , Glad Tidings I shall to you tell , Of late upon our Coast besel , By means of Captain Gordon . Great and Rich Prizes are brought here , Beside a second Privateer , Whose Valve plainly does appear To be near half a Million Of Sterling pounds . so that I hope . We'r almost alike with the English Fop , Who did our Africk Annandale stop , Into the Southern Ocean ; Let's therefore in good Wine and Beer , Drink a Health both far and near , Not only this but every year : To Our Brave Captain Gordon . Take courage then brave Scottish Men , Fear not the threats of the Southern , Although you were but one to ten , You'r able them to order . Let Zeal then for your Country's good , Add to your Valour and Manhood , You need not fear that Englands Flood , Dare venture on your Border . The time now seems for to approach , When Scotland shall come off in Coach , And those that on her do encroach : Be driven into Confusion : Let us then no more then Subject be , Unto proud England's Monarchy , Nor made Slaves by their Tyranny In suffering their Intrusion . Too , too long we have silent been , Too many abuses have we seen , Since Our King did Succeed their Queen ; And both Lands made and Union . Yet England still to Scotland broke . In every thing they undertook , Designing to keep's under Yoke And void of their Communion . Now since that Heaven hath set us free Strive to maintain your Liberty . And suffer no more slavery But let's unite together , With Heart and Hand firmly to Stand , In defence of this Ancient Land That they may you no more command , Who would deceive their Brother . So shall we live in joy and peace , And happy make Our future raze That it may be told in each place , Scotland Renews Her Honour , By keeping close to our Ancient Right , And Liberty , with all her might . While Sun and Moon do give their Light Let Scots Men show their Valour . FINIS . 