C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 23 ) Proper new Ballad in praise of the gallant Weavers . To its own proper new Tune . [ ? ] Gentlemen , and listen well [ ? ] to a Song I'm to endite , [ ? ] Praise of all the Weavers how much do I delight ? [ ? ] oh speak forth what I think of them , for they deserve the praise , And of their works these Garments are , which makes pride now a days . 2. O all you Trades and Callings , to offend you I am loath ; But if the Weavers be not fine , from whence comes the fine Cloth ? What is't that makes us gallent ? comes not from that Engine ? Who works the Silks and Satins , Strips , Stuffs , and Cloth so fine . [ 3 ] . Is't not the gallant Weavers ? to praise them I am glad ; Were not their work , full of Engine , sure I would go unclade . Come here you peeping Rascals that Weavers discommends ; Were't not their handy work , Sirs , you'd go with naked Lends . 4. The Dyer says , we colour Cloth , and the Tailor says we sew , Through Weavers hands it must first come ere it get Seam or Hew . Fair fallen the gallant Weavers , that is of such Engine , Whose works to be commended , there Cloth it is so fine . 5. Forth comes some others , reasonless , Thief Webster they will cry ; Hold you your tongue my Neighbours , you'r obliged , so am I , No thieves for to esteem them , but honest men they are ; Your Mother's Reel may prove o're short , their measure it may mar . 6. I pray , good Wives . if you do think your Yarn they do steal , Keep it at Home beside your Pose , and then you will do weel . These things that are most necessary , folks uses to think best ; 'Mongst such wee'll place the Weavers : to overcome the rest . [ 7. ] If you can work your Yarn at home , wee'll Weavers nought esteem , But it's the thing you cannot do , so hold your tongue good Deem , And with me praise the Weavers , whose work you cannot want , And cease from all ignominy when you begin to rant . 8. Then comes one forth without a cause , them creashie he will call . And silly man he minds not his Minnies fault at all . How she must Oil and Butter have , though all the rest should want , To creash her Wool ere it be spun , then he begins to rant , 9. And calls the Weavers creashie , when she the same begins ; For all that if it were not Creashr , her Wool much the worse spins . There's no Creash that he uses may make you raise this name , On him who makes his work right tied , when you do creash your Wame . 10. I pray you hold your tongue , Sir , and speak no more to me He had better strive to mense his work , than Creash his Womb like thee : The Creash that he makes use of , upon his work is seen : But making use as thou does , it is devoured clean . 11. How should I praise the Weaver , whose worth cannot be told ? Whose work is the most useful , therefore they may be bold To kith themselves to be Workmen , when others hold their tongue : And he that discommends him , I'd beatrice him with a Rung . 12. I held my tongue and heark'ned when some more fit than I Should have mark'd these abuses which so reproachfully Did overcome the Weaver , that's and industrious man , But negligent I found them , so I at last began 13. The Weavers Commendation not able to make end , Because they are so commodious , the half cannot be Penn'd Pry pardon me brave Weavers , when me far short you see Of your Deserts that's matchless , it is the verity . 14. The [ We ] avers Work I do desire so long as I may live , And worthy Estimation I of these Workmen have : Now all my gallant Weavers , my leave I take of you , And wishes you to prosper , so fair a while Adieu . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 23 ) Proper new Ballad in praise of the gallant Weavers . To its own proper new Tune . [ ? ] Gentlemen , and listen well [ ? ] to a Song I'm to endite , [ ? ] Praise of all the Weavers how much do I delight ? [ ? ] oh speak forth what I think of them , for they deserve the praise , And of their works these Garments are , which makes pride now a days . 2. O all you Trades and Callings , to offend you I am loath ; But if the Weavers be not fine , from whence comes the fine Cloth ? What is't that makes us gallent ? comes not from that Engine ? Who works the Silks and Satins , Strips , Stuffs , and Cloth so fine . [ 3 ] . Is't not the gallant Weavers ? to praise them I am glad ; Were not their work , full of Engine , sure I would go unclade . Come here you peeping Rascals that Weavers discommends ; Were't not their handy work , Sirs , you'd go with naked Lends . 4. The Dyer says , we colour Cloth , and the Tailor says we sew , Through Weavers hands it must first come ere it get Seam or Hew . Fair fallen the gallant Weavers , that is of such Engine , Whose works to be commended , there Cloth it is so fine . 5. Forth comes some others , reasonless , Thief Webster they will cry ; Hold you your tongue my Neighbours , you'r obliged , so am I , No thieves for to esteem them , but honest men they are ; Your Mother's Reel may prove o're short , their measure it may mar . 6. I pray , good Wives . if you do think your Yarn they do steal , Keep it at Home beside your Pose , and then you will do weel . These things that are most necessary , folks uses to think best ; 'Mongst such wee'll place the Weavers : to overcome the rest . [ 7. ] If you can work your Yarn at home , wee'll Weavers nought esteem , But it's the thing you cannot do , so hold your tongue good Deem , And with me praise the Weavers , whose work you cannot want , And cease from all ignominy when you begin to rant . 8. Then comes one forth without a cause , them creashie he will call . And silly man he minds not his Minnies fault at all . How she must Oil and Butter have , though all the rest should want , To creash her Wool ere it be spun , then he begins to rant , 9. And calls the Weavers creashie , when she the same begins ; For all that if it were not Creashr , her Wool much the worse spins . There's no Creash that he uses may make you raise this name , On him who makes his work right tied , when you do creash your Wame . 10. I pray you hold your tongue , Sir , and speak no more to me He had better strive to mense his work , than Creash his Womb like thee : The Creash that he makes use of , upon his work is seen : But making use as thou does , it is devoured clean . 11. How should I praise the Weaver , whose worth cannot be told ? Whose work is the most useful , therefore they may be bold To kith themselves to be Workmen , when others hold their tongue : And he that discommends him , I'd beatrice him with a Rung . 12. I held my tongue and heark'ned when some more fit than I Should have mark'd these abuses which so reproachfully Did overcome the Weaver , that's and industrious man , But negligent I found them , so I at last began 13. The Weavers Commendation not able to make end , Because they are so commodious , the half cannot be Penn'd Pry pardon me brave Weavers , when me far short you see Of your Deserts that's matchless , it is the verity . 14. The [ We ] avers Work I do desire so long as I may live , And worthy Estimation I of these Workmen have : Now all my gallant Weavers , my leave I take of you , And wishes you to prosper , so fair a while Adieu . FINIS 