C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 24 ) KING JAMES'S LETTER TO THE FRENCH KING AND EXCELLENT NEW SONG Tune of , Let Marry live long . KInd Lewis , my Friend , Since Things goes no better , Here is a kind Letter , Which to you I send , to lay down your Arms : For my conquering Son , Will quite overrun your Kingdoms , I fear , He'll bring a vast Army , He'll bring a vast Army , to conquer you here . Since Fortune does frown , And sends none but Crosses , How great are your Losses ; My Kingdoms and Crown you'll never regain , Too late here I know : For a powerful Foe will shortly arrive : Stout Boys of broad Brittain , Stout Boys of broad Brittain , fears no Man alive . Still ever for Peace , Lest sad Desolation Should fallen in your Nation , Your Foes they increase at Home and Abroad : For Diffusion of Blood , Makes my Eyes like a Flood , through Rivers of Tears , The Cries of the People , The Cries of the People , soar pierces mine Ears . Our Coll'nels are kill'd , And valiant Commanders , By fighting in Flanders , All Nations are fill'd with the Rumours of Wars ; Which troubles me soar , Let us freely give o're , since Fighting's in vain : I long to see Europe , I long to see Europe to flourish again . I cannot but own , And still I will ever , You've done your endeavour To ransom my Throne , by powerful Arms ; You've done what you can For and unfortunate Man , I ever have been : Those that fight against me , Those that fight against me , does Victory win . Since the Fates are decreed , That my Son and Daughter , Will ever hereafter Still flourish indeed , which will satisfy me : One Branch They will give , By the which I may live , I'll freely comply , That I am not for Fighting , That I am not for Fighting , no , no , no , not I . Now here lies the Case , The most I desire , Is hence to retire To some Holy Place , to spend my last Days : So Lewis , my Friend , Let the Wars have and end , and lay your Arms down : I'm wearied of seeking , I'm wearied of seeking , the Sceptre and Crown . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 24 ) KING JAMES'S LETTER TO THE FRENCH KING AND EXCELLENT NEW SONG Tune of , Let Marry live long . KInd Lewis , my Friend , Since Things goes no better , Here is a kind Letter , Which to you I send , to lay down your Arms : For my conquering Son , Will quite overrun your Kingdoms , I fear , He'll bring a vast Army , He'll bring a vast Army , to conquer you here . Since Fortune does frown , And sends none but Crosses , How great are your Losses ; My Kingdoms and Crown you'll never regain , Too late here I know : For a powerful Foe will shortly arrive : Stout Boys of broad Brittain , Stout Boys of broad Brittain , fears no Man alive . Still ever for Peace , Lest sad Desolation Should fallen in your Nation , Your Foes they increase at Home and Abroad : For Diffusion of Blood , Makes my Eyes like a Flood , through Rivers of Tears , The Cries of the People , The Cries of the People , soar pierces mine Ears . Our Coll'nels are kill'd , And valiant Commanders , By fighting in Flanders , All Nations are fill'd with the Rumours of Wars ; Which troubles me soar , Let us freely give o're , since Fighting's in vain : I long to see Europe , I long to see Europe to flourish again . I cannot but own , And still I will ever , You've done your endeavour To ransom my Throne , by powerful Arms ; You've done what you can For and unfortunate Man , I ever have been : Those that fight against me , Those that fight against me , does Victory win . Since the Fates are decreed , That my Son and Daughter , Will ever hereafter Still flourish indeed , which will satisfy me : One Branch They will give , By the which I may live , I'll freely comply , That I am not for Fighting , That I am not for Fighting , no , no , no , not I . Now here lies the Case , The most I desire , Is hence to retire To some Holy Place , to spend my last Days : So Lewis , my Friend , Let the Wars have and end , and lay your Arms down : I'm wearied of seeking , I'm wearied of seeking , the Sceptre and Crown . FINIS . 