C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 20 ) THE MILKING PAIL To and excellent New Tune , much in request you Nymph's and Silvian Gods , That Love green Fields and Woods , When spring newly Born herself does Adorn With Flowers and Blooming Budes ; Come singing the Praise , while Flooks does graze in yonder pleasant Vail : Or these that choose their Sleep to lose And in Cold goes with clouted Shoes , To carry the Milking Pail . You Goddess of the Morn , With Blushes you adorn Do take fresh Air while Lenats prepare , a consort in each green Thorn The Blackbird and Thrush in every Bush. and the charming Nightingale Who in a merry vein their Throats do strain , To entertain the jolly Train Of those of the Milking Pail . When cold Black Winds do roar . And Fields will Spring no more The Flowers that was seen so pleasant and green With Winter all Candi'd o're But how the Town Lass with her white Face And her Lips so deadly pale But it is so with those that go , Through Frost and snow , with Cheeks that glow And carry the Milking Pail The Misses of Courtly Mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold , With Washes and Tent her Skin does so paint That she's wither'd before she grow Old While she of Commod , puts on a Cart load , And with Cushens plump her Tail What Joys are found , in Rushy ground Young plump and found and Sweet and round Of those of the Milking Pail You Girls of Venus Game That ventures health and Fame In practsing Feats with Cold and Heats , Makes Lovers grow Blind and Lame If Men were so wise to valve the prize , Of the Wares most fit for Sale , What store of Bose would dob their Clothes To save a Nose by following those Who carry the Milking Pail , The Country Lad is free , From Fears and jealousy , While upon the Green , he is often seen with his Lassie on his knee With Kisses most sweet , he does her so treat And swears he'll grow Thrall . But the London Lass in every place , With brazen face , despises the Grace Of those of the Milking Pail . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 20 ) THE MILKING PAIL To and excellent New Tune , much in request you Nymph's and Silvian Gods , That Love green Fields and Woods , When spring newly Born herself does Adorn With Flowers and Blooming Budes ; Come singing the Praise , while Flooks does graze in yonder pleasant Vail : Or these that choose their Sleep to lose And in Cold goes with clouted Shoes , To carry the Milking Pail . You Goddess of the Morn , With Blushes you adorn Do take fresh Air while Lenats prepare , a consort in each green Thorn The Blackbird and Thrush in every Bush. and the charming Nightingale Who in a merry vein their Throats do strain , To entertain the jolly Train Of those of the Milking Pail . When cold Black Winds do roar . And Fields will Spring no more The Flowers that was seen so pleasant and green With Winter all Candi'd o're But how the Town Lass with her white Face And her Lips so deadly pale But it is so with those that go , Through Frost and snow , with Cheeks that glow And carry the Milking Pail The Misses of Courtly Mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold , With Washes and Tent her Skin does so paint That she's wither'd before she grow Old While she of Commod , puts on a Cart load , And with Cushens plump her Tail What Joys are found , in Rushy ground Young plump and found and Sweet and round Of those of the Milking Pail You Girls of Venus Game That ventures health and Fame In practsing Feats with Cold and Heats , Makes Lovers grow Blind and Lame If Men were so wise to valve the prize , Of the Wares most fit for Sale , What store of Bose would dob their Clothes To save a Nose by following those Who carry the Milking Pail , The Country Lad is free , From Fears and jealousy , While upon the Green , he is often seen with his Lassie on his knee With Kisses most sweet , he does her so treat And swears he'll grow Thrall . But the London Lass in every place , With brazen face , despises the Grace Of those of the Milking Pail . FINIS 