C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 32 ) LONG LENT , 1685. Or a Vindication of the Feasts , Against those three great Horned Beasts , John Forbes , Master Duncan Lidel , With his Son George to tune their fiddle . To the Tune of Robin-hood and the Tanner . LEnt fourty Work days ever was , With just six Sundayes more ; But three Horn'd Beasts at Aberdeen Intends to make three score . For now they want but only fix , As clearly may appear ; And if they continue with their old tricks , They shall want none nixt year . But for to know when Pasch should be , Their Errors to discover , It still should the first Sunday fallen , After the Jews Pass'over . Which falls this year April the seventh , As Jews do reckon all The fourteen day of Nisan Month It every year must fallen . The Month of Nisan does begin As best imform'd I am , The first change of the Moon each year That fallen [ ? ] oh the Ram. On March the twenty fourth this year The change does fallen at night ; Then after that count fourteen days , April the seventh comes right . Then Sunday nixt for Pasch ye'l find April the twelfth will be Good Friday's still near the full Moon All Authors does agree ; Which made Dionisius to say , The World's at and end : Or else the God of nature must Suffer ; this is well kenned . Because the darkness that was then Did fallen near the full Moon , Then certainly the Moon he knew , Could not Eclipse the Sun : But all their Feasts are wrong this year , Save Argol , which is strange For all their Almanacs makes Pasch But four days from the Change . Edinburgh's true Almanac is right As all the World may see ; But those set out at Aberdeen Still worse and worse they be , For since that Pasch does Rule the rest , As Wing and others show , Then six weeks & five days count back For Fastens even to know . Then count just seven Weeks after Pasch For to find Whitsunday , And you shall find it fallen this year On the last day of May : But this they do not understand , It is for them too deep , Although the Ram do bear the Bell among a flock of Sheep . They do pretend to much learning In Latin and in Greek , And yet they neither can well writ , Nor yet good Latin speak , For prima Cornu they do say , It is not Latin good , Whereas the sense do clearly show That stela's understood . If Master Duncan understood The Gramer Rules aright , The Rule Eclipsis he would mind And that would set him right ; And yet of Learning he will boast , And unlearn'd others call ; But he that braggeth most thereof Hath oftimes leas [ tO ] of all . Now you that does intend this year To keep your Fairs aright , That does depend upon these Feasts , Cause benish from your sighed These Almanacs of Aberdeen With others of that kind , Or else your Fairs will err a Week , Which you too true will find . For if these who at Fairs do use Come but a Week to late , And find these Fairs is past and gone They will look wondrous blait . Since Rabin in Aberdeen deceased It is near fourty years , And ever since their Almanacs Hath still been Jock the liers ; Yet they'l rely on Aberdeen , Because it had the Name : But when they see it errs so much Thereof they will think shame , And say the City Edinburgh is The Metropolitan , Wherein all Arts is truly taught That's for the use of Man. If any Man will this deny Let him take this Debate , And Mr. Duncan now defend , Or else he'l come too late . For now he stands upon the Stage , The day is almost lost ; Although in London he did teach , Which causeth him to boast . But such a Master he hath been , As Lily to us show ; Whom he did first in London meet , The like he near did know . They always carp at all the Works Which other men hath done , If they them want ; like AEshops Dog , They'l bark even at the Moon . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 32 ) LONG LENT , 1685. Or a Vindication of the Feasts , Against those three great Horned Beasts , John Forbes , Master Duncan Lidel , With his Son George to tune their fiddle . To the Tune of Robin-hood and the Tanner . LEnt fourty Work days ever was , With just six Sundayes more ; But three Horn'd Beasts at Aberdeen Intends to make three score . For now they want but only fix , As clearly may appear ; And if they continue with their old tricks , They shall want none nixt year . But for to know when Pasch should be , Their Errors to discover , It still should the first Sunday fallen , After the Jews Pass'over . Which falls this year April the seventh , As Jews do reckon all The fourteen day of Nisan Month It every year must fallen . The Month of Nisan does begin As best imform'd I am , The first change of the Moon each year That fallen [ ? ] oh the Ram. On March the twenty fourth this year The change does fallen at night ; Then after that count fourteen days , April the seventh comes right . Then Sunday nixt for Pasch ye'l find April the twelfth will be Good Friday's still near the full Moon All Authors does agree ; Which made Dionisius to say , The World's at and end : Or else the God of nature must Suffer ; this is well kenned . Because the darkness that was then Did fallen near the full Moon , Then certainly the Moon he knew , Could not Eclipse the Sun : But all their Feasts are wrong this year , Save Argol , which is strange For all their Almanacs makes Pasch But four days from the Change . Edinburgh's true Almanac is right As all the World may see ; But those set out at Aberdeen Still worse and worse they be , For since that Pasch does Rule the rest , As Wing and others show , Then six weeks & five days count back For Fastens even to know . Then count just seven Weeks after Pasch For to find Whitsunday , And you shall find it fallen this year On the last day of May : But this they do not understand , It is for them too deep , Although the Ram do bear the Bell among a flock of Sheep . They do pretend to much learning In Latin and in Greek , And yet they neither can well writ , Nor yet good Latin speak , For prima Cornu they do say , It is not Latin good , Whereas the sense do clearly show That stela's understood . If Master Duncan understood The Gramer Rules aright , The Rule Eclipsis he would mind And that would set him right ; And yet of Learning he will boast , And unlearn'd others call ; But he that braggeth most thereof Hath oftimes leas [ tO ] of all . Now you that does intend this year To keep your Fairs aright , That does depend upon these Feasts , Cause benish from your sighed These Almanacs of Aberdeen With others of that kind , Or else your Fairs will err a Week , Which you too true will find . For if these who at Fairs do use Come but a Week to late , And find these Fairs is past and gone They will look wondrous blait . Since Rabin in Aberdeen deceased It is near fourty years , And ever since their Almanacs Hath still been Jock the liers ; Yet they'l rely on Aberdeen , Because it had the Name : But when they see it errs so much Thereof they will think shame , And say the City Edinburgh is The Metropolitan , Wherein all Arts is truly taught That's for the use of Man. If any Man will this deny Let him take this Debate , And Mr. Duncan now defend , Or else he'l come too late . For now he stands upon the Stage , The day is almost lost ; Although in London he did teach , Which causeth him to boast . But such a Master he hath been , As Lily to us show ; Whom he did first in London meet , The like he near did know . They always carp at all the Works Which other men hath done , If they them want ; like AEshops Dog , They'l bark even at the Moon . FINIS . 