C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 33 ) Containing ane Encomaistick Character of the Famous City OF DUMBRITTAIN . THat noble and that ancient Town Dumbrittain glorious for renown , That stands upon the Silver sides , Of Clyde and Leven wash't with Tides : Two Rivers scorning to change names , With Tweed , or Forth , nay not with Thames ; More venerable none can be , If we respect antiquity : Or if we look to Situation , She is the pride of all the Nation ; Her port , so safe , so calm , so fair , Sole object of the Seaman's pray'r ; Her Fort of such magnificence , Is boasted Scotland's chief defence ; Environ'd with the scaly legions , The Burghers of the brinnie regions ; Her Buildings Graceful , and her Fields Pleasure and profit jointly yields : All these are worthy of great praise , For which this Town deserves the bays ; But in this one She does excel , And from all others bears the BELL , That in these awless Lawless times , Famous for Faction and for Crimes , She and She only strives to be , Famous for pious Loyalty . Therefore Commissioners has sent , Indulged Traitors to prevent . Her very common Bells' do ring , Obedience unto the KING , That nothing in the Town may be , But what may found their Loyalty , Ev'n just like A'rons Bells' of Gold , That did both found and teach of old . Dumbrittans Bell as you shall hear , Can charm the Heart , and Chim the ear , And instance whereof you may mark , In honest Thomas Walker Clerk , A Man who from this very story , May reckon'd be Dumbrittains Glory ; Just like the Town Clerk in the Acts , That was made Famous by such Facts ; Though he did but appease a strife , But Thomas did convert his Wife , And therefore in records of Fame , Deserves a far more noble Name ; This was the way he her converted , To Conventicles She had started , Wherefore he vow'd Her to divorce , And would admit of no remorse , And that all men might clearly see , How Zealous he resolv'd to be , He for the skillet Bell does call , To roap what was in House or Hall ; That so She might for ay despair His person , or his goods to share . The Bell does clank , the Rogue does cry , Who'le Thomas Walker's Goods , come buy ; For Thomas he his Wife will banish , And his whole House he will displenish , And teach all Husbands to their shame , A Wife's ane easy thing to tame . The Woman come of ancient raze , The Watsons chief Men of that place , Who for their valiant Loyalty , Were gifted with the Sacred Tree . Then which their's no Tree unto fate , A Tenant of a longer date ; The Watson for his Manly stroke , Does in his Arms bear the Oak . Gentle She , and melting hearted , At the first noise of this She started , And ay the more the Bell it sounded , The more , the more She was confounded , And now She thought the time was come That She would get Queen Vashties Doom And did begin to fear the worst , And in Her Heart Fanatics cursed , And their debausht and lawless Meetings , That are Profane and Godless Cheatings , That discord make in Church and State , And in all Families debate . But chiefly thought Herself accursed , That from Her dear must be divorc' Her head was full of doleful notions : Her Heart with melancholy motions : Her words with sighs all checkered are , And with Her hair Her hands made Warr [ ? ] But still the Bells' most shameful found ; Her heart with grief did most confound , And had not Friends by Intercession , Caus'd Thomas pardon Her Trangres [ ? ] Then suddenly Her fatal Breath Had pay'd it's last arrears to Death [ ? ] But now all Persons Her doe see A Zealot in Conformity . Who Poison in Her Meat would d [ ? ] Far sooner then offend a Bishop , And with impatience does endure it [ ? ] To hear ane ill word of a Curate [ ? ] When primrose in December gr [ ? ] And Rivers over Mountains flo [ ? ] And when the Loadstone hats [ ? ] And when the Sun goes no m [ ? ] When night turns day , and [ ? ] In motion grows Irregular ; And when the good Men g [ ? ] And when a Poor Man's not [ ? ] And when a Whig endue'd w [ ? ] With courage or with courtesy ; Then shall our convert grow so [ ? ] Once more to try a Conventicle . Sure this would bring us all to e [ ? ] And free us of our misery's , If King and Counsel kenned the kne [ ? ] Of honest Thomas Walker's Bell . Printed Anno 1685. C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 33 ) Containing ane Encomaistick Character of the Famous City OF DUMBRITTAIN . THat noble and that ancient Town Dumbrittain glorious for renown , That stands upon the Silver sides , Of Clyde and Leven wash't with Tides : Two Rivers scorning to change names , With Tweed , or Forth , nay not with Thames ; More venerable none can be , If we respect antiquity : Or if we look to Situation , She is the pride of all the Nation ; Her port , so safe , so calm , so fair , Sole object of the Seaman's pray'r ; Her Fort of such magnificence , Is boasted Scotland's chief defence ; Environ'd with the scaly legions , The Burghers of the brinnie regions ; Her Buildings Graceful , and her Fields Pleasure and profit jointly yields : All these are worthy of great praise , For which this Town deserves the bays ; But in this one She does excel , And from all others bears the BELL , That in these awless Lawless times , Famous for Faction and for Crimes , She and She only strives to be , Famous for pious Loyalty . Therefore Commissioners has sent , Indulged Traitors to prevent . Her very common Bells' do ring , Obedience unto the KING , That nothing in the Town may be , But what may found their Loyalty , Ev'n just like A'rons Bells' of Gold , That did both found and teach of old . Dumbrittans Bell as you shall hear , Can charm the Heart , and Chim the ear , And instance whereof you may mark , In honest Thomas Walker Clerk , A Man who from this very story , May reckon'd be Dumbrittains Glory ; Just like the Town Clerk in the Acts , That was made Famous by such Facts ; Though he did but appease a strife , But Thomas did convert his Wife , And therefore in records of Fame , Deserves a far more noble Name ; This was the way he her converted , To Conventicles She had started , Wherefore he vow'd Her to divorce , And would admit of no remorse , And that all men might clearly see , How Zealous he resolv'd to be , He for the skillet Bell does call , To roap what was in House or Hall ; That so She might for ay despair His person , or his goods to share . The Bell does clank , the Rogue does cry , Who'le Thomas Walker's Goods , come buy ; For Thomas he his Wife will banish , And his whole House he will displenish , And teach all Husbands to their shame , A Wife's ane easy thing to tame . The Woman come of ancient raze , The Watsons chief Men of that place , Who for their valiant Loyalty , Were gifted with the Sacred Tree . Then which their's no Tree unto fate , A Tenant of a longer date ; The Watson for his Manly stroke , Does in his Arms bear the Oak . Gentle She , and melting hearted , At the first noise of this She started , And ay the more the Bell it sounded , The more , the more She was confounded , And now She thought the time was come That She would get Queen Vashties Doom And did begin to fear the worst , And in Her Heart Fanatics cursed , And their debausht and lawless Meetings , That are Profane and Godless Cheatings , That discord make in Church and State , And in all Families debate . But chiefly thought Herself accursed , That from Her dear must be divorc' Her head was full of doleful notions : Her Heart with melancholy motions : Her words with sighs all checkered are , And with Her hair Her hands made Warr [ ? ] But still the Bells' most shameful found ; Her heart with grief did most confound , And had not Friends by Intercession , Caus'd Thomas pardon Her Trangres [ ? ] Then suddenly Her fatal Breath Had pay'd it's last arrears to Death [ ? ] But now all Persons Her doe see A Zealot in Conformity . Who Poison in Her Meat would d [ ? ] Far sooner then offend a Bishop , And with impatience does endure it [ ? ] To hear ane ill word of a Curate [ ? ] When primrose in December gr [ ? ] And Rivers over Mountains flo [ ? ] And when the Loadstone hats [ ? ] And when the Sun goes no m [ ? ] When night turns day , and [ ? ] In motion grows Irregular ; And when the good Men g [ ? ] And when a Poor Man's not [ ? ] And when a Whig endue'd w [ ? ] With courage or with courtesy ; Then shall our convert grow so [ ? ] Once more to try a Conventicle . Sure this would bring us all to e [ ? ] And free us of our misery's , If King and Counsel kenned the kne [ ? ] Of honest Thomas Walker's Bell . Printed Anno 1685. 