C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 40 ) THE Noble Man's Generous Kindness ; OR THE Countryman's Unexpected HAPPINESS . Giving a True account of a Nobleman , who taking Notice of the poor Man's Industrious Care and Pains for the maintaining of his Charge , which was Seven small Children , meeting with him upon a day , Discoursed with him , and invited him and his Wife , with his Children , Home to his House ; and accordingly bestowed upon him a Farm of Thirty Aikers of Land , to be con - tinued to him and his Heirs . To and Excellent New Tune . A Noble Man liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose Charge it was great ; He had seven Children and most of them small , And none but his Labour to keep them withal , He never was given to idle and lurk , This Noble Man seeing him go daily to work : His Flail , with his Bag , and his Bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that had hundreds a year . Thus careful and constant each morning he went To his Daily Labour with Joy and Content , So jocund and jolly , both whistle and sing As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the spring , One morning this Noble Man taking his Walk , He met with this poor Man , and freely did talk , He asked him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking , concerning his Charge , Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy Labour is hard , and thy Wages is low , And yet thou art cheerful ; I pray tell me true , How you do maintain them so well as you do . I carefully carry home all that I earn ; Now daily experience by this I do learn ; That though it is possible we may live poor . We still keep a ravenous Woof from the door . I Reap and I Mow , and I Harrow and Sow . Sometime I to Hedging and Ditching do go : No Work come amiss for I Thresh and I Blow Thus I eat my Bred by the sweat of my Brow. My Wife she is willing to pull in Yoke , We live like two Lambs , and we never provoke Each other , but like to the labouring Ant We do our endeavour to keep us from want . And when I came home from my Labour at night To my Wife and Children , in whom I delight , To hear them come round me with tatlling noise Now these are the Riches that poor Men enjoy . Though I am as weary as weary my be . The youngest I commonly dance on my Knee : I find that Content is and absolute Feast . I never repin'd at my Charge in the least . The Noble Man hearing then what he did say , Was pleas'd , and invited him home the next day : His Wife and his Children he charg'd him to bring In token of Favour , he gave him a Ring . Then thanked his Honour ; and taking his leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe ; But that this strange story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the Ring she was then in a maze . Betimes in the morning the good Wife arose ; And made them all fine in the best of their clothes The good Man and Wife , with his Children small , They then went to Dine at the Noble men Hall , But when they come there , as the truth does report All things was prepar'd in a plentiful sort And they at the Nobleman's Table did Dine , With all soats of Dainties , with plenty of Wine All things being over , he soon let him know : What he then intended on him to bestow : A Farm , with full Thirty good Acres of Land , And gave him the writings into his own hand Because thou wast careful and good to thy Wife , I'll make thy days happy the rest of thy life ; It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heirs : For why , I beheld thy indsturious Care . No Tongue then was able in full to express , The depth of their joy & their true thankfulness . With many a Courtesy and Bow to the ground : But like such Noble Men there is few to be found . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 40 ) THE Noble Man's Generous Kindness ; OR THE Countryman's Unexpected HAPPINESS . Giving a True account of a Nobleman , who taking Notice of the poor Man's Industrious Care and Pains for the maintaining of his Charge , which was Seven small Children , meeting with him upon a day , Discoursed with him , and invited him and his Wife , with his Children , Home to his House ; and accordingly bestowed upon him a Farm of Thirty Aikers of Land , to be con - tinued to him and his Heirs . To and Excellent New Tune . A Noble Man liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose Charge it was great ; He had seven Children and most of them small , And none but his Labour to keep them withal , He never was given to idle and lurk , This Noble Man seeing him go daily to work : His Flail , with his Bag , and his Bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that had hundreds a year . Thus careful and constant each morning he went To his Daily Labour with Joy and Content , So jocund and jolly , both whistle and sing As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the spring , One morning this Noble Man taking his Walk , He met with this poor Man , and freely did talk , He asked him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking , concerning his Charge , Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy Labour is hard , and thy Wages is low , And yet thou art cheerful ; I pray tell me true , How you do maintain them so well as you do . I carefully carry home all that I earn ; Now daily experience by this I do learn ; That though it is possible we may live poor . We still keep a ravenous Woof from the door . I Reap and I Mow , and I Harrow and Sow . Sometime I to Hedging and Ditching do go : No Work come amiss for I Thresh and I Blow Thus I eat my Bred by the sweat of my Brow. My Wife she is willing to pull in Yoke , We live like two Lambs , and we never provoke Each other , but like to the labouring Ant We do our endeavour to keep us from want . And when I came home from my Labour at night To my Wife and Children , in whom I delight , To hear them come round me with tatlling noise Now these are the Riches that poor Men enjoy . Though I am as weary as weary my be . The youngest I commonly dance on my Knee : I find that Content is and absolute Feast . I never repin'd at my Charge in the least . The Noble Man hearing then what he did say , Was pleas'd , and invited him home the next day : His Wife and his Children he charg'd him to bring In token of Favour , he gave him a Ring . Then thanked his Honour ; and taking his leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe ; But that this strange story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the Ring she was then in a maze . Betimes in the morning the good Wife arose ; And made them all fine in the best of their clothes The good Man and Wife , with his Children small , They then went to Dine at the Noble men Hall , But when they come there , as the truth does report All things was prepar'd in a plentiful sort And they at the Nobleman's Table did Dine , With all soats of Dainties , with plenty of Wine All things being over , he soon let him know : What he then intended on him to bestow : A Farm , with full Thirty good Acres of Land , And gave him the writings into his own hand Because thou wast careful and good to thy Wife , I'll make thy days happy the rest of thy life ; It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heirs : For why , I beheld thy indsturious Care . No Tongue then was able in full to express , The depth of their joy & their true thankfulness . With many a Courtesy and Bow to the ground : But like such Noble Men there is few to be found . FINIS . 