C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 41 ) The SORROWFUL MAIDEN For the want of TOCHER-GOOD . To and Excellent Old Tune . THus lurking as alone I lay , where there was no Repair , A Maid before me on the way , I herd a Greeting fair : Her Moan was loud it mov'd the Air , to hear her still I stood , She was lamenting evermore , for fault of Tocher good . Her roaring Cries outrageous , with driery Words amain ; Her stormy Speech and rigorous , as she herself had slave : The Tears that from her Eyes soar ran her Pain it multiply'd ; For wanting of a Love so long for fault of Tocher-good . Who'll pity me , suppose , I pance , she says , unto this Pine ? I'm reft indeed of Wit and Sense , that I rage in my Mind . Because that I do lie alone , and Company's so good ; I am in point , alas ! to tine , for want of Tocher-good . Alas ! I know not what to do , I stand in such Despair ; Or where away that I should go , my Maidenhead to ware , No marvel though my Heart be fair , to play I dare not do't ; Unmarry'd I stand in such Fear for want of Tocher-good . And old Maiden if that I be , no Man will of me make ; Then great dolour will gar me die , from time they me forsake ; Alas ! my Sorrow cannot slaik , which gars my Pleasure fade , Alas ! that I should want my Maik , for want of Tocher-good . My Father was a Gentleman , of many Lands was Laird ; He was so rash in his Spending , and all his Living clear'd . At Cards and Dice he hath it war'd , while it did never good ; Which gars me fit at home unserv'd for want of Tocher-good . These lordly Lairds they by me pass and scantly do me ken : They swear I am a lusty Lass , but Gear , quoth they , she's nane : Quoth they , it gars her fit at Hame , for all her gallant Weed ; Who would have her , quoth they again ; if she want Tocher-good ? I busk , I keam , I prien , I straik , but this is all in vain ; I make my self right Market like , but nothing does avail : And this is ev'n the matter hail . their Gear gars them be lov'd ; My Heart it bowdens into Bail for want of Tocher-good . Though she were ne'er so grey a May into the same Country , Yet Young men will her kiss and clap , if she hath gear to gie : A Carl's Daughter if that she be , some with her will conclude , And marry her right honestly , if she have Tocher-good . This gars my Heart be like to burst , and break in Pieces three , When Young men do their Cheeks oft clap , and will not look on me . This is the very Cause truly , their Gear gars them be lov'd , I would he had been hanged high , first ordain'd Tocher-good . But o , alas ! if that I wist , my Mind nothing should had : Then should I run into all Haste , and choose some wanton Lad : And yet , alas ! I am so read , by no means I dare do' No marvel though my Heart be sad For want of Tocher-good . There's no Remeed but Patience , or else lie down and die : Take Pity on us woeful things , that have no Gear to gie : Alas ! we seek of their Mercy , to grant us some Remeed : And take us from that doleful Day , since we want Tocher-good . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 41 ) The SORROWFUL MAIDEN For the want of TOCHER-GOOD . To and Excellent Old Tune . THus lurking as alone I lay , where there was no Repair , A Maid before me on the way , I herd a Greeting fair : Her Moan was loud it mov'd the Air , to hear her still I stood , She was lamenting evermore , for fault of Tocher good . Her roaring Cries outrageous , with driery Words amain ; Her stormy Speech and rigorous , as she herself had slave : The Tears that from her Eyes soar ran her Pain it multiply'd ; For wanting of a Love so long for fault of Tocher-good . Who'll pity me , suppose , I pance , she says , unto this Pine ? I'm reft indeed of Wit and Sense , that I rage in my Mind . Because that I do lie alone , and Company's so good ; I am in point , alas ! to tine , for want of Tocher-good . Alas ! I know not what to do , I stand in such Despair ; Or where away that I should go , my Maidenhead to ware , No marvel though my Heart be fair , to play I dare not do't ; Unmarry'd I stand in such Fear for want of Tocher-good . And old Maiden if that I be , no Man will of me make ; Then great dolour will gar me die , from time they me forsake ; Alas ! my Sorrow cannot slaik , which gars my Pleasure fade , Alas ! that I should want my Maik , for want of Tocher-good . My Father was a Gentleman , of many Lands was Laird ; He was so rash in his Spending , and all his Living clear'd . At Cards and Dice he hath it war'd , while it did never good ; Which gars me fit at home unserv'd for want of Tocher-good . These lordly Lairds they by me pass and scantly do me ken : They swear I am a lusty Lass , but Gear , quoth they , she's nane : Quoth they , it gars her fit at Hame , for all her gallant Weed ; Who would have her , quoth they again ; if she want Tocher-good ? I busk , I keam , I prien , I straik , but this is all in vain ; I make my self right Market like , but nothing does avail : And this is ev'n the matter hail . their Gear gars them be lov'd ; My Heart it bowdens into Bail for want of Tocher-good . Though she were ne'er so grey a May into the same Country , Yet Young men will her kiss and clap , if she hath gear to gie : A Carl's Daughter if that she be , some with her will conclude , And marry her right honestly , if she have Tocher-good . This gars my Heart be like to burst , and break in Pieces three , When Young men do their Cheeks oft clap , and will not look on me . This is the very Cause truly , their Gear gars them be lov'd , I would he had been hanged high , first ordain'd Tocher-good . But o , alas ! if that I wist , my Mind nothing should had : Then should I run into all Haste , and choose some wanton Lad : And yet , alas ! I am so read , by no means I dare do' No marvel though my Heart be sad For want of Tocher-good . There's no Remeed but Patience , or else lie down and die : Take Pity on us woeful things , that have no Gear to gie : Alas ! we seek of their Mercy , to grant us some Remeed : And take us from that doleful Day , since we want Tocher-good . FINIS . 