C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 38 ) THE Moderate Man's Advice against Extravagant Drinking , OR , Enough is as good as a Feast . To and Excellent new Tune . COme all you brave hearts of Gold , Let's learn to be merry and wise For it is a true saying of old , Suspicion is doubtless disguis'd : Whatever we say or do , Let's not drink to disturb our brain ; But laugh for and hour or two , And never be Drunk again . For a cup of strong bear it is good , To drive the cold Winter away , 'Twill nourish and cherish our blood ; When our spirits begin to decay : But he that takes too much , Of his head he will complain ; Then let us have a gentle touch , But never be drunk again . Strong Bear it is made for Man , But Man was not made for it , Let's drink and be merry as we can , But not drink away our wi Then Drawer come fill us a quart , And let it be Claret in grain . We'll Laugh and we'll merely sport And never be Drunk again . For enough is as good as a Feast , If a Man could have but the Power , A Drunkard is worse than a Beast , That lies tumbling on the floor . If a Man could his time recall , In and Ale-House he spends in vain , We'll learn to be merry Boys all , And never be Drunk again . Good Liquour will yield us delight , And cure us of trouble and care , And when my dear Friends I invite , No charges or cost will I spare , But brew still the best of good Malt , Which we can for Silver obtain : To tipple I count it no fault , If we are not drunk again . The Trooper that mounts the war horse And Lovers that Courts for a Wife , Good Faith they are both at a loss , Were it not for the Liquour of Life : It makes them courageous and stout , Their Hearts in Jockeller vain , And though we Drink briskly about , We'll never be Drunk again . Some Men that are commonly Drunk ; Will often fallen out with their Friends , And others will Troop to a Punk , Where Money they westfully spend ; The which they have reason so to prize , Because it is hard to obtain , Boys let us be merry and wise , And never be Drunk again . Dioginis liv'd in a Tab , And drank the cold water so clear ; For want of a Cup of strong Bub , His Spirits he never could cheer : He's gone and left us behind , True Love and friendship to maintain , We'll Drink for the good of Mankind , And never be Drunk again . The Student that Studies the Law , And the Scholar that follows his Books , Their Learning's not worth a wheat straw If heavy and dull is their look But cheer them with cherishing Bowls , Then will they true Learning obtain . Now as we are jocaller Souls , We'll never be Drunk again . Now here's a good Health to the Queen The Glory and Pride of the Land , And let our Allegiance be seen , By fix in a Protestants Hand ; Oh wish her both Honour and Wealth , A long and Prosperous Reign ; And tho' we drink to her good Health , Let's never be Drunk again . FINIS . Edinburgh , Printed and Sold by John Moncur at his Printing-House at the Foot of Sclater's Close foregainst the Throne 1707. C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 38 ) THE Moderate Man's Advice against Extravagant Drinking , OR , Enough is as good as a Feast . To and Excellent new Tune . COme all you brave hearts of Gold , Let's learn to be merry and wise For it is a true saying of old , Suspicion is doubtless disguis'd : Whatever we say or do , Let's not drink to disturb our brain ; But laugh for and hour or two , And never be Drunk again . For a cup of strong bear it is good , To drive the cold Winter away , 'Twill nourish and cherish our blood ; When our spirits begin to decay : But he that takes too much , Of his head he will complain ; Then let us have a gentle touch , But never be drunk again . Strong Bear it is made for Man , But Man was not made for it , Let's drink and be merry as we can , But not drink away our wi Then Drawer come fill us a quart , And let it be Claret in grain . We'll Laugh and we'll merely sport And never be Drunk again . For enough is as good as a Feast , If a Man could have but the Power , A Drunkard is worse than a Beast , That lies tumbling on the floor . If a Man could his time recall , In and Ale-House he spends in vain , We'll learn to be merry Boys all , And never be Drunk again . Good Liquour will yield us delight , And cure us of trouble and care , And when my dear Friends I invite , No charges or cost will I spare , But brew still the best of good Malt , Which we can for Silver obtain : To tipple I count it no fault , If we are not drunk again . The Trooper that mounts the war horse And Lovers that Courts for a Wife , Good Faith they are both at a loss , Were it not for the Liquour of Life : It makes them courageous and stout , Their Hearts in Jockeller vain , And though we Drink briskly about , We'll never be Drunk again . Some Men that are commonly Drunk ; Will often fallen out with their Friends , And others will Troop to a Punk , Where Money they westfully spend ; The which they have reason so to prize , Because it is hard to obtain , Boys let us be merry and wise , And never be Drunk again . Dioginis liv'd in a Tab , And drank the cold water so clear ; For want of a Cup of strong Bub , His Spirits he never could cheer : He's gone and left us behind , True Love and friendship to maintain , We'll Drink for the good of Mankind , And never be Drunk again . The Student that Studies the Law , And the Scholar that follows his Books , Their Learning's not worth a wheat straw If heavy and dull is their look But cheer them with cherishing Bowls , Then will they true Learning obtain . Now as we are jocaller Souls , We'll never be Drunk again . Now here's a good Health to the Queen The Glory and Pride of the Land , And let our Allegiance be seen , By fix in a Protestants Hand ; Oh wish her both Honour and Wealth , A long and Prosperous Reign ; And tho' we drink to her good Health , Let's never be Drunk again . FINIS . Edinburgh , Printed and Sold by John Moncur at his Printing-House at the Foot of Sclater's Close foregainst the Throne 1707. 