C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 37 ) B A New SONG To the Tune of Lochaber no more . FAREWEL to Lochaber , and farewell my Jean , Where heartsom with thee I've money a Day been ; For Lochaber no more , Lochaber no more . We'll may be return to Lochaber no more . These Tears that I shed , they are a' for my Dear ; And not for the Danger attending on weir . Tho' boar on rough Seas to a far bloody Shore : May be to return to Lochaber no more . II Tho' Hurricanes rise , and rise e'ry wind They'll ne'er make a Tempest like that in my Mind : Tho' loudest of Thunder on louder Waves roar , That's naithing like leaving my Love on the Shore . To leave thee behind me , my Heart is sair pain'd By Ease that's inglorious , no Fame can be gain'd , And Beauty and Love's the Reward of the Brave . And I must deserve it before I can crave . 3 Then Glory , my Jeany , maun plead my Excuse , Since Honour commands me , How can I refuse ? Without it I ne'er can have Merit for thee , And without thy Favour I'd better not be ? I gae then , my Lass , to win Honour and Fame , And if I should luck to come gloriously Hame , I'll bring a Heart to thee with Love running o'er , And then I'll leave thee and Lochaber no more . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 37 ) B A New SONG To the Tune of Lochaber no more . FAREWEL to Lochaber , and farewell my Jean , Where heartsom with thee I've money a Day been ; For Lochaber no more , Lochaber no more . We'll may be return to Lochaber no more . These Tears that I shed , they are a' for my Dear ; And not for the Danger attending on weir . Tho' boar on rough Seas to a far bloody Shore : May be to return to Lochaber no more . II Tho' Hurricanes rise , and rise e'ry wind They'll ne'er make a Tempest like that in my Mind : Tho' loudest of Thunder on louder Waves roar , That's naithing like leaving my Love on the Shore . To leave thee behind me , my Heart is sair pain'd By Ease that's inglorious , no Fame can be gain'd , And Beauty and Love's the Reward of the Brave . And I must deserve it before I can crave . 3 Then Glory , my Jeany , maun plead my Excuse , Since Honour commands me , How can I refuse ? Without it I ne'er can have Merit for thee , And without thy Favour I'd better not be ? I gae then , my Lass , to win Honour and Fame , And if I should luck to come gloriously Hame , I'll bring a Heart to thee with Love running o'er , And then I'll leave thee and Lochaber no more . FINIS 