C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 36 ) THE Highland Man's Lament , For the Dea [ th ] of Donald Bayn , alias Mcevan Vanifranck , who was Execute in the Grass M [ a ] rket of Edinburgh , on Wednesday the 9th Day of January 1723. TOnald Bayn her nane dear Shoy , Makes a' Folk sad save Robin Roy Who kenned him since he was a Boy , her nane fell Swons , To think he'd hangs like Gilderoy , by Laulan Louns . Ohon , ohon for Land of Refe , since Tonald's hang'd for common Thief , Not on kind Gallows at the Crief , indeef no fair , Pra Gentlemen her nane sells Chief , did a hing there . Teel spread his Net out o're them a , That took stout Tonald's Life avua , And Troun them in the Well of Spa or Peterhead , Shame fa the feckless Lauthian Law , for now he's dead . By great St. Patrick's Sauls he swears , While either Targe or Trous she wears , The Clans shall fallen out by the Ears , without a Cure , For dinny think her nane sell fears , a Shirrif-muir . May Bess at Hame ne're pear te pairn , Hen lay the Egg , or Mage steal Yarn , Or Alaster lift Cows from Nairn , but the Monro's , By weight of her Claemore shall learn , to ken their Foes . And by to Panes of K. Mcduff , Te Frasers shall get sik a cuff , We'l bray them a' as sma as Snuff , bloody-battle , Sin her nane fell will gang and Truff , a' their Cattle . But Robin Roy , she fears you will , Ne're smell Powder , but stand still , And see her bread Sword hack and kill , money Hunder . Sin came scouring down the Hill , for the Plunder . Donald and her , for money a Day , Eat Kebbecks , and drank Huskiebae ; And sin took up to Trumps to play , Mcferson's Rant . we liv'd as blithe as the Lord Grey , or Laird of Grant . Thron Murray-Land , and Huntly Heth , We chas'd the Gypsies out of Breath , Put them , and Tinklers a' to Death , and spoil'd their Carcks : The Chapmen found our Highland Wrath , we toom'd their Packs . When Mar her nane sells King did press , Men for to take in Imverness , We lifted the Excise and Cess , gae Swiss their Paiks . The Touch , so frighted with our Dress , god hearty Straiks . For to meet him , it was nae Mows , He was the warst of Worrie-Cows , Rob Roy's Heart fell in the Hows , when he saw him : They parted ay we' bloody Pows , he was so slim . Twenty Thousand Marks in Gold , Robin o're a Grecn Truff told To twa McGrigors that were bold , for to buy Cows . But she Trous Donald , did lay hold upon their Trows . For he fleg'd that McGrigor Crew , Fast frae Tonald's Claws they flew ; Tonald and Alaster he slew , ne're Lochkater : Took a' their Gear , and them he threw , in a Water . Pe sure , her nane fell never saw , Te' Man tat valued less to Law , For he gae Folk , called Coals to blaw , which guard them groan . And when he carried all away . cry'd Pockmohon . To like of this did ne're befall us , Tonald as stout as William Wallace , Was guarded by , te Southland Fallows , her Heart will plead . For his pare Arse to grace the Gallows , and now he's tead . May her fell ne're trip Athol Hill , Nor never see the Sneizing Mill ; Nor trink of Huskiebae a Gill , or wear te Durk ; If the Monro's she do not kill , and Fight like Turk . Mccleods , Mctonalds and Mcpanes , And a te M's tat kenned him anes , Hing town te Head , and make great Mains , we' Cronohs fair , I or Tonald's can Pelow te Stanes , we ill cou [ l ] worser spare . Te Clans will make te firy very , Frae Fokoburss to Inverary , And frae Glensheils down to Glengary , for Tonald Bayn , I fear te Plots will a' miscarry , since Tonald's gane . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 36 ) THE Highland Man's Lament , For the Dea [ th ] of Donald Bayn , alias Mcevan Vanifranck , who was Execute in the Grass M [ a ] rket of Edinburgh , on Wednesday the 9th Day of January 1723. TOnald Bayn her nane dear Shoy , Makes a' Folk sad save Robin Roy Who kenned him since he was a Boy , her nane fell Swons , To think he'd hangs like Gilderoy , by Laulan Louns . Ohon , ohon for Land of Refe , since Tonald's hang'd for common Thief , Not on kind Gallows at the Crief , indeef no fair , Pra Gentlemen her nane sells Chief , did a hing there . Teel spread his Net out o're them a , That took stout Tonald's Life avua , And Troun them in the Well of Spa or Peterhead , Shame fa the feckless Lauthian Law , for now he's dead . By great St. Patrick's Sauls he swears , While either Targe or Trous she wears , The Clans shall fallen out by the Ears , without a Cure , For dinny think her nane sell fears , a Shirrif-muir . May Bess at Hame ne're pear te pairn , Hen lay the Egg , or Mage steal Yarn , Or Alaster lift Cows from Nairn , but the Monro's , By weight of her Claemore shall learn , to ken their Foes . And by to Panes of K. Mcduff , Te Frasers shall get sik a cuff , We'l bray them a' as sma as Snuff , bloody-battle , Sin her nane fell will gang and Truff , a' their Cattle . But Robin Roy , she fears you will , Ne're smell Powder , but stand still , And see her bread Sword hack and kill , money Hunder . Sin came scouring down the Hill , for the Plunder . Donald and her , for money a Day , Eat Kebbecks , and drank Huskiebae ; And sin took up to Trumps to play , Mcferson's Rant . we liv'd as blithe as the Lord Grey , or Laird of Grant . Thron Murray-Land , and Huntly Heth , We chas'd the Gypsies out of Breath , Put them , and Tinklers a' to Death , and spoil'd their Carcks : The Chapmen found our Highland Wrath , we toom'd their Packs . When Mar her nane sells King did press , Men for to take in Imverness , We lifted the Excise and Cess , gae Swiss their Paiks . The Touch , so frighted with our Dress , god hearty Straiks . For to meet him , it was nae Mows , He was the warst of Worrie-Cows , Rob Roy's Heart fell in the Hows , when he saw him : They parted ay we' bloody Pows , he was so slim . Twenty Thousand Marks in Gold , Robin o're a Grecn Truff told To twa McGrigors that were bold , for to buy Cows . But she Trous Donald , did lay hold upon their Trows . For he fleg'd that McGrigor Crew , Fast frae Tonald's Claws they flew ; Tonald and Alaster he slew , ne're Lochkater : Took a' their Gear , and them he threw , in a Water . Pe sure , her nane fell never saw , Te' Man tat valued less to Law , For he gae Folk , called Coals to blaw , which guard them groan . And when he carried all away . cry'd Pockmohon . To like of this did ne're befall us , Tonald as stout as William Wallace , Was guarded by , te Southland Fallows , her Heart will plead . For his pare Arse to grace the Gallows , and now he's tead . May her fell ne're trip Athol Hill , Nor never see the Sneizing Mill ; Nor trink of Huskiebae a Gill , or wear te Durk ; If the Monro's she do not kill , and Fight like Turk . Mccleods , Mctonalds and Mcpanes , And a te M's tat kenned him anes , Hing town te Head , and make great Mains , we' Cronohs fair , I or Tonald's can Pelow te Stanes , we ill cou [ l ] worser spare . Te Clans will make te firy very , Frae Fokoburss to Inverary , And frae Glensheils down to Glengary , for Tonald Bayn , I fear te Plots will a' miscarry , since Tonald's gane . FINIS . 