C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 39 ) And ELEGY on WILLY BALD Who was long Porter in Traquaire : Tho' he's now dead he was not old ; Alas for him my Heart is saire . AND has old Death that Bloody Knave E'en brought Poor Willy to his Grave ? Tho' we pray'd ay his Life to save with Book and Beed . Alas we'll never hear him Rave , since now he's dead . 2 Now wha'll describe to us the Flight Of Suthren Men , from Scottish Knight ; And how they Ran with all their Might , and shook for Dread : This Willy taul'd us many a Night , but now he's dead . 3 Then when of Barley's healsom Juice , He god his Dose he crack'd so Cruse , Of Douglass , Wallace and the Bruce their doughty deed : The Names of these made Willy spruce ; but now he's dead . 4 Since e'er he height the Name of Baul , Since he cou'd Speak , or Creep , or Craul , He lik'd the Ingles Men to Maul , and Curse their Seed : Good Faith he was and honest Saul tho' now he's dead . 5 Aft has he Sworn be Haly Rood , Yea I trow something no so good , That those who for the Union stood , shou'd want the Head : These were his Tales when in right Mood ; but now he's dead . 6 Of Scripture Texts he was a Mumbler , Yea in Philosophy no Fumbler , At making Rhymes not thought a Bumbler , scarce Sense indeed : But , best of a he turn'd the Tumbler ; but now he's dead . 7 Ance to chop Logic he did denzie , With Doctors , Strachan and Mackenzie ; But when he tyr'd he did not fenzie to shake his Head : And bid the De'el receive the Enzie , that's ane indeed . 8 As he came hame frae Edinburgh Town , 'Twixt his Mare's Lug's he slept sou soun , With Pistols well sew'd in a Gown , with double Thread : But and their Buts were up or down , ne'er fash'd his Head. 9 Among the Hills e'er break of Day , He saw the Fairies in his Way , On Nagues some White , some Black , some Bay , ride by with speed : Yet fiend ae Word the De'els durst say , unarm'd indeed . 10 Now wha'll for a lick of the Kirn , Gae hame with Horsebrugh to the Pirn , And venture aft baith Skin and Birn , and scour through Tweed : Will wou'd have doon't without a Girn , but now he's dead . 11 Now wha will manage the Kail Bell , Or wha like him will make it knell , Or wha will on us yelp and yell ; to Board you speed : The fiend a ane I 'tweel can tell ; since Willy's dead . 12 Aft did he Mind John in Dunlappy , And lik'd his Wife for being sappy ; In ev'ry Thing he thought him happy , and wife indeed : But wish't his senseless little Cappy broke o're his Head. 13 Well did his Neighbours all and he , About the Brekfast Bred agree , Yet for the Drink he'd sometime plee , and had good need : But now the De'el yae drap gets he since he is dead . 14 At seeking Barm he gaed his Round , Be Knows , Rigs , Mills , to the Kirk Town , Till's Heels cou'd hardly save his Crown , or bear his Head : Yet there was still Life in the Loun , till now he's dead . 15 Ah how strong Ale wou'd made him clatter , And then a Dram wou'd mend the Matter , His Bowsplit he wou'd sometime batter ; that's true indeed : For all that he ne'er car'd for Water , yet now he's dead . 16 But if sometime it was his Hap , To get a Soup that was but Jap , Yet he wou'd drink it ev'ry Drap , and shake his Head : Then carelessly fling by the Cap and swear it's dead . 17 Now we pray all with Heart and Mouth , May Willy's Doom be soft and smooth , O save him from the Lions Tooth ; and Fire of Hell : For he cou'd never suffer Drouth , he kens himself . A Verse made upon William Bald in imitati - on of John in Dunlappy . WILLY BALD dwells in Traquaire , Thou hast a Heart that's void of Fear ; Give the strong Drink thou seek'st na more , Thou'lt take a Quart for thy own share , And when that's done look sharp for more , Tho' thou shou'd Spew't thou'lt never care , To try't again , nay fiend yae Hair : So honest Willy e'en had thee there . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 39 ) And ELEGY on WILLY BALD Who was long Porter in Traquaire : Tho' he's now dead he was not old ; Alas for him my Heart is saire . AND has old Death that Bloody Knave E'en brought Poor Willy to his Grave ? Tho' we pray'd ay his Life to save with Book and Beed . Alas we'll never hear him Rave , since now he's dead . 2 Now wha'll describe to us the Flight Of Suthren Men , from Scottish Knight ; And how they Ran with all their Might , and shook for Dread : This Willy taul'd us many a Night , but now he's dead . 3 Then when of Barley's healsom Juice , He god his Dose he crack'd so Cruse , Of Douglass , Wallace and the Bruce their doughty deed : The Names of these made Willy spruce ; but now he's dead . 4 Since e'er he height the Name of Baul , Since he cou'd Speak , or Creep , or Craul , He lik'd the Ingles Men to Maul , and Curse their Seed : Good Faith he was and honest Saul tho' now he's dead . 5 Aft has he Sworn be Haly Rood , Yea I trow something no so good , That those who for the Union stood , shou'd want the Head : These were his Tales when in right Mood ; but now he's dead . 6 Of Scripture Texts he was a Mumbler , Yea in Philosophy no Fumbler , At making Rhymes not thought a Bumbler , scarce Sense indeed : But , best of a he turn'd the Tumbler ; but now he's dead . 7 Ance to chop Logic he did denzie , With Doctors , Strachan and Mackenzie ; But when he tyr'd he did not fenzie to shake his Head : And bid the De'el receive the Enzie , that's ane indeed . 8 As he came hame frae Edinburgh Town , 'Twixt his Mare's Lug's he slept sou soun , With Pistols well sew'd in a Gown , with double Thread : But and their Buts were up or down , ne'er fash'd his Head. 9 Among the Hills e'er break of Day , He saw the Fairies in his Way , On Nagues some White , some Black , some Bay , ride by with speed : Yet fiend ae Word the De'els durst say , unarm'd indeed . 10 Now wha'll for a lick of the Kirn , Gae hame with Horsebrugh to the Pirn , And venture aft baith Skin and Birn , and scour through Tweed : Will wou'd have doon't without a Girn , but now he's dead . 11 Now wha will manage the Kail Bell , Or wha like him will make it knell , Or wha will on us yelp and yell ; to Board you speed : The fiend a ane I 'tweel can tell ; since Willy's dead . 12 Aft did he Mind John in Dunlappy , And lik'd his Wife for being sappy ; In ev'ry Thing he thought him happy , and wife indeed : But wish't his senseless little Cappy broke o're his Head. 13 Well did his Neighbours all and he , About the Brekfast Bred agree , Yet for the Drink he'd sometime plee , and had good need : But now the De'el yae drap gets he since he is dead . 14 At seeking Barm he gaed his Round , Be Knows , Rigs , Mills , to the Kirk Town , Till's Heels cou'd hardly save his Crown , or bear his Head : Yet there was still Life in the Loun , till now he's dead . 15 Ah how strong Ale wou'd made him clatter , And then a Dram wou'd mend the Matter , His Bowsplit he wou'd sometime batter ; that's true indeed : For all that he ne'er car'd for Water , yet now he's dead . 16 But if sometime it was his Hap , To get a Soup that was but Jap , Yet he wou'd drink it ev'ry Drap , and shake his Head : Then carelessly fling by the Cap and swear it's dead . 17 Now we pray all with Heart and Mouth , May Willy's Doom be soft and smooth , O save him from the Lions Tooth ; and Fire of Hell : For he cou'd never suffer Drouth , he kens himself . A Verse made upon William Bald in imitati - on of John in Dunlappy . WILLY BALD dwells in Traquaire , Thou hast a Heart that's void of Fear ; Give the strong Drink thou seek'st na more , Thou'lt take a Quart for thy own share , And when that's done look sharp for more , Tho' thou shou'd Spew't thou'lt never care , To try't again , nay fiend yae Hair : So honest Willy e'en had thee there . FINIS . 