C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 37 ) A AND [ AC ] COUNT of the Life and tragical End of Alaster Mackalaster , [ w ] ho was hanged at Aberdeen the 31st of May , 1723. To the Tune of , Captain Johnstons's Lament . INTO a Place in Argile shire called Cambeltoun by Name , One Alaster Mackalaster Who once lived in the same . 2 A Merchant as himself did say , But others said not so ; Yet afterwards as you shall hear , He wrought himself much Woe . 3 He being then reduc'd to Straits Not knowing how to shift He choos'd a Foreigner for to be : Or else to live by Theft . 4 For as he passed from place to place , As many did confess ; He forced ay some Charity , From some more , from some less . 5 If I have not forgotten the Time It was in the Month of June . As he behav'd where he had passed , So did in Aberdeen . 6 He terrified some Families . Especially their Wives Made them cry out , finding themselves In hazard of their Lives . 7 How soon the Magiestrat's did hear That he behaved so . Some Sergeants of the Town were sent In search of him to go . 8 Who being apprehended there , Was into Prison cast . And when enquir'd could give no count . How's former Life he'd passed , 9 They asked at him who was his Wife He told a public Lie , As afterwards it prov'd soar : When they the Truth did try . 10 But now my Heart begins to quake , This Story to rehearse . Unless acted be savage Men , The like's not found in Verse . 11 The Wretch was kept into a Room , And Locks made fast thereon Who then out of the Prison Floor Did dig up many a Stone . 12 Yet though by those unhappy works Could do himself no good . As afterwards it did appear : But only thirst for Blood . 13 The Keeper's Servant he came up To give him in some Food . At whom he threw one of those Stones Which struck him in the Head. 14 Being thrown with such Violence , It struck down to his Brains . The Prisoners when they herd that Cry'd out and made Alarms . 15 The Keeper's Servant was brought home : And in his Bed was laid , And within two Days after that By that same Stroke he dy'd . 16 That Wretch was now made fast in Iron , Who studied all his will ; And sharpened the Ends of them Some others for to kill . 17 But the good hand of Providence his cruelty did prevent . Although that he was bent on Blood , He god not his Intent . 18 And being brought before that Lord ; That was his Judge to be ; He speechless stood as all beheld , So self-condem'd was he . 19 His Lordship then at him did ask , If he had any to plead ; Desiring him for to confess His cruel Bloody deed . 20 Upon the thirty first of May This sentence was laid on : For to be hung up by the Neck Betwixt the Cross and Throne . 21 A Death too good for Bloody Men . Who of GOD have no fear ; Which does conclude a Story sad , As on cane wish to hear . 22 Let every one who read these Lines Seek Grace their Lives to spend ; If since be Loved be thee or me , You see where it may end . The Keeper's Name was Alexander Leonard . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 37 ) A AND [ AC ] COUNT of the Life and tragical End of Alaster Mackalaster , [ w ] ho was hanged at Aberdeen the 31st of May , 1723. To the Tune of , Captain Johnstons's Lament . INTO a Place in Argile shire called Cambeltoun by Name , One Alaster Mackalaster Who once lived in the same . 2 A Merchant as himself did say , But others said not so ; Yet afterwards as you shall hear , He wrought himself much Woe . 3 He being then reduc'd to Straits Not knowing how to shift He choos'd a Foreigner for to be : Or else to live by Theft . 4 For as he passed from place to place , As many did confess ; He forced ay some Charity , From some more , from some less . 5 If I have not forgotten the Time It was in the Month of June . As he behav'd where he had passed , So did in Aberdeen . 6 He terrified some Families . Especially their Wives Made them cry out , finding themselves In hazard of their Lives . 7 How soon the Magiestrat's did hear That he behaved so . Some Sergeants of the Town were sent In search of him to go . 8 Who being apprehended there , Was into Prison cast . And when enquir'd could give no count . How's former Life he'd passed , 9 They asked at him who was his Wife He told a public Lie , As afterwards it prov'd soar : When they the Truth did try . 10 But now my Heart begins to quake , This Story to rehearse . Unless acted be savage Men , The like's not found in Verse . 11 The Wretch was kept into a Room , And Locks made fast thereon Who then out of the Prison Floor Did dig up many a Stone . 12 Yet though by those unhappy works Could do himself no good . As afterwards it did appear : But only thirst for Blood . 13 The Keeper's Servant he came up To give him in some Food . At whom he threw one of those Stones Which struck him in the Head. 14 Being thrown with such Violence , It struck down to his Brains . The Prisoners when they herd that Cry'd out and made Alarms . 15 The Keeper's Servant was brought home : And in his Bed was laid , And within two Days after that By that same Stroke he dy'd . 16 That Wretch was now made fast in Iron , Who studied all his will ; And sharpened the Ends of them Some others for to kill . 17 But the good hand of Providence his cruelty did prevent . Although that he was bent on Blood , He god not his Intent . 18 And being brought before that Lord ; That was his Judge to be ; He speechless stood as all beheld , So self-condem'd was he . 19 His Lordship then at him did ask , If he had any to plead ; Desiring him for to confess His cruel Bloody deed . 20 Upon the thirty first of May This sentence was laid on : For to be hung up by the Neck Betwixt the Cross and Throne . 21 A Death too good for Bloody Men . Who of GOD have no fear ; Which does conclude a Story sad , As on cane wish to hear . 22 Let every one who read these Lines Seek Grace their Lives to spend ; If since be Loved be thee or me , You see where it may end . The Keeper's Name was Alexander Leonard . 