C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 42 ) R And Excellent New Ballad , ENTITLED , Bide till you be married yet . To its own proper Tune . WHen I was young , as you are now , I could have done , as you can do : I could have carri'd as high a Brow , As any other young Man , I trow . So bide you yet , so bide you yet , So bide till you be marri'd yet , The Half of that will serve you yet , If once that you were marri'd yet . But when that you buy the Cat's Salt , And get a wicked Wife to prat . It's right or wrong she'll on you chat ; I pray , young Man , take Care of that . So bide you yet , etc You have no Wife , nor Bairns to clash , Nor yet you need not spend your Cash , The World and you did never clash , Nor yet your Countenance to dash , So bide you yet , etc Neither at home nor yet Abroad , Of Burdens you ne're boar a Load ; The black Cow on your Foot ne're trodden , Which makes you sing alongst the Rod , So bide you yet , etc When you fit up late , and rise so soon , And hath nothing to eat at Noon , To cut with Knife , or sup with Spoon , I'm sure , Young Man. you'll change your Tune . So bide you yet , etc When Gold and Money does you fail , And can get none for Bound nor Bail , Then all your Friends will change their Sail ; I'm sure , Young Man you'll change your Tale . So bide you yet , etc I pray , young Man , take my Advice , And don't you prove over nice , Tho' you be favour'd with the Dice , There may be Changes in a Trece . So bide you yet , etc I was as brisk as you are now , For Gold and Money I had too , Of Joys and Friends I had enough , Till Marriage did me all undo . So bide you yet , etc And then the Bairns will call for Bred , When you have none to serve their Need , At you the Wife will shake her Head , And then its Time that you were dead . So bide you yet , etc If it fallen out you have no Bairns , For her to diddle in her Arms , She will not stand when that it comes , To set upon your Head two Horns . So bide you yet , etc Then perhaps the Rock or else th' Reil , Or some Piece of the Spining Wheel , She will drive at you with her Will , And then she'll send to the De'il . So bide you yet , etc And if your Wife prove good and kind , If you want Money to serve her Mind , Altho' to Hunger and Thirst inclin'd ; I'm sure , young Man , you'll change your Mind . So bide you yet , etc If you'll remain a single Life , I'm sure you're free from Care and Strief , Not conjur'd with a wicked Wife , That makes one weary of their Life . So bide you yet . etc But if I can't with you prevail But still you follow your wilful Will , Lay by your Money , with Care and Skill , For Marriage will from you it call . So bide you yet , etc The Maid's Reply . I Wonder Man's so void of Sense , For to so many Lines commence , Against what has been ever since That Man was in his Innocence . So bide you yet , etc If he were known , who made these Lines , He would deserve some broken Bones : Shall we starve , who to Meat incline ? I'm sure there's few that's of his Mind . So bide you yet , etc You say , That Wives do scold their Men ; I find it is your Case at Home , You give her Nought to eat or spend , Must gain her Living at some Game . So bide you yet , etc What makes you slight a married Life , But loath to work for Bairns and Wife ? Where Sloth is , there is always Strife , I doubt nothing , but that's your Life . So bide you yet , etc But Neighbour Virgins do not fear , There Grounds of Comforts , as I hear , There few that to his Speech give Ear . Because he's known to be a Liar . So bide you yet , so bide you yet , I hope you'll not miscarry yet , So bide you yet , so bide you yet , You'll get a Man to marry yet . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 42 ) R And Excellent New Ballad , ENTITLED , Bide till you be married yet . To its own proper Tune . WHen I was young , as you are now , I could have done , as you can do : I could have carri'd as high a Brow , As any other young Man , I trow . So bide you yet , so bide you yet , So bide till you be marri'd yet , The Half of that will serve you yet , If once that you were marri'd yet . But when that you buy the Cat's Salt , And get a wicked Wife to prat . It's right or wrong she'll on you chat ; I pray , young Man , take Care of that . So bide you yet , etc You have no Wife , nor Bairns to clash , Nor yet you need not spend your Cash , The World and you did never clash , Nor yet your Countenance to dash , So bide you yet , etc Neither at home nor yet Abroad , Of Burdens you ne're boar a Load ; The black Cow on your Foot ne're trodden , Which makes you sing alongst the Rod , So bide you yet , etc When you fit up late , and rise so soon , And hath nothing to eat at Noon , To cut with Knife , or sup with Spoon , I'm sure , Young Man. you'll change your Tune . So bide you yet , etc When Gold and Money does you fail , And can get none for Bound nor Bail , Then all your Friends will change their Sail ; I'm sure , Young Man you'll change your Tale . So bide you yet , etc I pray , young Man , take my Advice , And don't you prove over nice , Tho' you be favour'd with the Dice , There may be Changes in a Trece . So bide you yet , etc I was as brisk as you are now , For Gold and Money I had too , Of Joys and Friends I had enough , Till Marriage did me all undo . So bide you yet , etc And then the Bairns will call for Bred , When you have none to serve their Need , At you the Wife will shake her Head , And then its Time that you were dead . So bide you yet , etc If it fallen out you have no Bairns , For her to diddle in her Arms , She will not stand when that it comes , To set upon your Head two Horns . So bide you yet , etc Then perhaps the Rock or else th' Reil , Or some Piece of the Spining Wheel , She will drive at you with her Will , And then she'll send to the De'il . So bide you yet , etc And if your Wife prove good and kind , If you want Money to serve her Mind , Altho' to Hunger and Thirst inclin'd ; I'm sure , young Man , you'll change your Mind . So bide you yet , etc If you'll remain a single Life , I'm sure you're free from Care and Strief , Not conjur'd with a wicked Wife , That makes one weary of their Life . So bide you yet . etc But if I can't with you prevail But still you follow your wilful Will , Lay by your Money , with Care and Skill , For Marriage will from you it call . So bide you yet , etc The Maid's Reply . I Wonder Man's so void of Sense , For to so many Lines commence , Against what has been ever since That Man was in his Innocence . So bide you yet , etc If he were known , who made these Lines , He would deserve some broken Bones : Shall we starve , who to Meat incline ? I'm sure there's few that's of his Mind . So bide you yet , etc You say , That Wives do scold their Men ; I find it is your Case at Home , You give her Nought to eat or spend , Must gain her Living at some Game . So bide you yet , etc What makes you slight a married Life , But loath to work for Bairns and Wife ? Where Sloth is , there is always Strife , I doubt nothing , but that's your Life . So bide you yet , etc But Neighbour Virgins do not fear , There Grounds of Comforts , as I hear , There few that to his Speech give Ear . Because he's known to be a Liar . So bide you yet , so bide you yet , I hope you'll not miscarry yet , So bide you yet , so bide you yet , You'll get a Man to marry yet . FINIS . 