C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 50 ) c The Northern Ditty . Or the Scots-Man Outwitted , By the Country Damosel . To and excellent new Tune . COld and raw the north does blow black in the morning early : All trees were hid with snow , covered with winter yearly : As I came riding o're the slough , I met with a Farmers Daughter , Her Rosy Cheeks & bonny Brow , in truth made my mouth to water . Down I vail'd my Bonnet low , meaning to show my breeding She returned a graceful bow , her visage far exceeding : I ask'd her where she went so soon , and longed to begin to parley : She told me to the nixt Mercat-Town a purpose to fell her Barley . In this purse , sweet soul , said I , twentie pound lies fairly ; Seek no further one to buy , for I'le take all the Barley : Twentie more shall purchase delight thy person I love so dearly ; If thou wilt ligg with me all night and gang [ ? ] in the morning early If four [ ? ] u'd buy the Gob [ ? ] [ ? ] Sir , Or were my friends as poor as Job , I'd never raise 'em so Sir . For should you prove tonight my friend we'll get a young Kid together , And you'd be gone or nine month end and where shall I find the father ? I pray what would my parents say , if I should be so silly : To give my Maidenhead away ; and loss my true Love Billie : O! they would bring me to disgrace , and therefore I say you nay Sir . And if you would my body embrace first Marry , and then you may , Sir I told her I had wedded be [ e ] n , fourteen years and longer : Yet I'd choose her for my Queen , and tie the knot yet stronger . She bid me then no further come but manage my wedlock fairly And keep my purse for my spouse at home for some other should have her Barley Then as swift as any Roe , she road away and left me : After her I could not go , of joy she quite bereft me . Thus I my self did disappoint , for she did leave me fairly : My words knocked all things out of joint I lost both the Maid & the Barley . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 50 ) c The Northern Ditty . Or the Scots-Man Outwitted , By the Country Damosel . To and excellent new Tune . COld and raw the north does blow black in the morning early : All trees were hid with snow , covered with winter yearly : As I came riding o're the slough , I met with a Farmers Daughter , Her Rosy Cheeks & bonny Brow , in truth made my mouth to water . Down I vail'd my Bonnet low , meaning to show my breeding She returned a graceful bow , her visage far exceeding : I ask'd her where she went so soon , and longed to begin to parley : She told me to the nixt Mercat-Town a purpose to fell her Barley . In this purse , sweet soul , said I , twentie pound lies fairly ; Seek no further one to buy , for I'le take all the Barley : Twentie more shall purchase delight thy person I love so dearly ; If thou wilt ligg with me all night and gang [ ? ] in the morning early If four [ ? ] u'd buy the Gob [ ? ] [ ? ] Sir , Or were my friends as poor as Job , I'd never raise 'em so Sir . For should you prove tonight my friend we'll get a young Kid together , And you'd be gone or nine month end and where shall I find the father ? I pray what would my parents say , if I should be so silly : To give my Maidenhead away ; and loss my true Love Billie : O! they would bring me to disgrace , and therefore I say you nay Sir . And if you would my body embrace first Marry , and then you may , Sir I told her I had wedded be [ e ] n , fourteen years and longer : Yet I'd choose her for my Queen , and tie the knot yet stronger . She bid me then no further come but manage my wedlock fairly And keep my purse for my spouse at home for some other should have her Barley Then as swift as any Roe , she road away and left me : After her I could not go , of joy she quite bereft me . Thus I my self did disappoint , for she did leave me fairly : My words knocked all things out of joint I lost both the Maid & the Barley . 