C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 49 ) The bonny bruicked Lassie she's blue beneath the Eye . DOwn by yond River side , where early falls the Due , Betwixt my Love and I , there were kind Kisses anew ; There were kind Kisses anew , betwixt my Love and I , For the bonny bruick'd Lassie she's blue beneath the Eye . Down in yond Garden green where Ladies make repair , There grows a Tree of Pride that once did flourish fair : But now the leaves blown off't and it's withered with the Frost ; For my Love he is gone , and all my Labour lost . I wish I were a Man , then if it were my chance , In Battle for to die although it were in France : Although it were in France , to end my Misery , For the bonny bruick'd Lassie , she's blue beneath the Eye . If I thought it not since , my own self for to slae , I'd be reveng'd on him who's wrought me all this Wae , Who's wrought me all this Wae , and cause of my Mis'ry , For the bonny bruick'd Lassie , she's blue beneath the Eye . When you go over Seas , be cunning in your Craft , For when you were at home , you did visit me too oft , You did visit me too oft , the truth I'll tell you plain , For there's nothing in my Mind but Love for Love again . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 49 ) The bonny bruicked Lassie she's blue beneath the Eye . DOwn by yond River side , where early falls the Due , Betwixt my Love and I , there were kind Kisses anew ; There were kind Kisses anew , betwixt my Love and I , For the bonny bruick'd Lassie she's blue beneath the Eye . Down in yond Garden green where Ladies make repair , There grows a Tree of Pride that once did flourish fair : But now the leaves blown off't and it's withered with the Frost ; For my Love he is gone , and all my Labour lost . I wish I were a Man , then if it were my chance , In Battle for to die although it were in France : Although it were in France , to end my Misery , For the bonny bruick'd Lassie , she's blue beneath the Eye . If I thought it not since , my own self for to slae , I'd be reveng'd on him who's wrought me all this Wae , Who's wrought me all this Wae , and cause of my Mis'ry , For the bonny bruick'd Lassie , she's blue beneath the Eye . When you go over Seas , be cunning in your Craft , For when you were at home , you did visit me too oft , You did visit me too oft , the truth I'll tell you plain , For there's nothing in my Mind but Love for Love again . FINIS . 