C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 58 ) B Ane Excellent LOVE SONNET . With Imperial sweetness my Princes denies : That my lips they make good the report of mine eyes . With rigorous silence I easily see , That and absolute Murder is prepared for me . My thoughts are rebellious , and strives to make known That person most glorious , which I dare not own : Left fearing her anger , I strive to restrain , Then shall I near pity nor pardon obtain . Had I but the honour at her feet to rehearse , The number of torments , with their sad increase I then would be eased to think that you knew , With how much contentment I suffer for you . My life is disastrous , and this is my doom . To die for a Beauty , and none most know whom : For I'm so obedient , this life I'le resign , For since I first saw thee could never call mine . I wish that my body were in the grave laid . That my corpse might rest which torments have had : And she who should have lov'd me , might sensible be ; That she hath been my burial , and caus'd me to die . My thoughts they are suspended betwixt hope and despair , My Joys they are ended , and sorrows repair , But yet if compassion with Beauty agree , I have reason to hope some comfort from thee . My great want of comfort , and fear she say nay , Bears down my intention and crosses me always : Yet I will essay , what ever will befall ; For dumb men and cowards , gain nothing at all . O sweetest , you know then my merits but small , Your beauty is great , and your vertue's 'bove all ; Your favour transcendeth , as the world may see , Oh let him not die , Love , who lives for thee . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 58 ) B Ane Excellent LOVE SONNET . With Imperial sweetness my Princes denies : That my lips they make good the report of mine eyes . With rigorous silence I easily see , That and absolute Murder is prepared for me . My thoughts are rebellious , and strives to make known That person most glorious , which I dare not own : Left fearing her anger , I strive to restrain , Then shall I near pity nor pardon obtain . Had I but the honour at her feet to rehearse , The number of torments , with their sad increase I then would be eased to think that you knew , With how much contentment I suffer for you . My life is disastrous , and this is my doom . To die for a Beauty , and none most know whom : For I'm so obedient , this life I'le resign , For since I first saw thee could never call mine . I wish that my body were in the grave laid . That my corpse might rest which torments have had : And she who should have lov'd me , might sensible be ; That she hath been my burial , and caus'd me to die . My thoughts they are suspended betwixt hope and despair , My Joys they are ended , and sorrows repair , But yet if compassion with Beauty agree , I have reason to hope some comfort from thee . My great want of comfort , and fear she say nay , Bears down my intention and crosses me always : Yet I will essay , what ever will befall ; For dumb men and cowards , gain nothing at all . O sweetest , you know then my merits but small , Your beauty is great , and your vertue's 'bove all ; Your favour transcendeth , as the world may see , Oh let him not die , Love , who lives for thee . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 58 ) B Ane Excellent LOVE SONNET . With Imperial sweetness my Princes denies : That my lips they make good the report of mine eyes . With rigorous silence I easily see , That and absolute Murder is prepared for me . My thoughts are rebellious , and strives to make known That person most glorious , which I dare not own : Left fearing her anger , I strive to restrain , Then shall I near pity nor pardon obtain . Had I but the honour at her feet to rehearse , The number of torments , with their sad increase I then would be eased to think that you knew , With how much contentment I suffer for you . My life is disastrous , and this is my doom . To die for a Beauty , and none most know whom : For I'm so obedient , this life I'le resign , For since I first saw thee could never call mine . I wish that my body were in the grave laid . That my corpse might rest which torments have had : And she who should have lov'd me , might sensible be ; That she hath been my burial , and caus'd me to die . My thoughts they are suspended betwixt hope and despair , My Joys they are ended , and sorrows repair , But yet if compassion with Beauty agree , I have reason to hope some comfort from thee . My great want of comfort , and fear she say nay , Bears down my intention and crosses me always : Yet I will essay , what ever will befall ; For dumb men and cowards , gain nothing at all . O sweetest , you know then my merits but small , Your beauty is great , and your vertue's 'bove all ; Your favour transcendeth , as the world may see , Oh let him not die , Love , who lives for thee . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 58 ) B Ane Excellent LOVE SONNET . With Imperial sweetness my Princes denies : That my lips they make good the report of mine eyes . With rigorous silence I easily see , That and absolute Murder is prepared for me . My thoughts are rebellious , and strives to make known That person most glorious , which I dare not own : Left fearing her anger , I strive to restrain , Then shall I near pity nor pardon obtain . Had I but the honour at her feet to rehearse , The number of torments , with their sad increase I then would be eased to think that you knew , With how much contentment I suffer for you . My life is disastrous , and this is my doom . To die for a Beauty , and none most know whom : For I'm so obedient , this life I'le resign , For since I first saw thee could never call mine . I wish that my body were in the grave laid . That my corpse might rest which torments have had : And she who should have lov'd me , might sensible be ; That she hath been my burial , and caus'd me to die . My thoughts they are suspended betwixt hope and despair , My Joys they are ended , and sorrows repair , But yet if compassion with Beauty agree , I have reason to hope some comfort from thee . My great want of comfort , and fear she say nay , Bears down my intention and crosses me always : Yet I will essay , what ever will befall ; For dumb men and cowards , gain nothing at all . O sweetest , you know then my merits but small , Your beauty is great , and your vertue's 'bove all ; Your favour transcendeth , as the world may see , Oh let him not die , Love , who lives for thee . FINIS . 