C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 54 ) The flattering young Man and the modest Maid . To be Sung to the pleasant Tune of , The Duke of Florence March . The young Man's Affection . OFt have I vow'd to love no one , but when I think on thee , I have no power for to give o're , thy Captive I must be ; So many looks and graces dwells between these Lips and Eyes , That whosoever sees thy Face , must once be made a prize . 2. Oft have I view'd thy comely parts from head unto the toe , Which makes me fry in Cupids flames , the truth of all is so ; For when I lie upon my Bed , in hope's to take my rest , I cannot sleep to think on thee , whom I in heart love best . 3. Oft have I Kissed thy Rudie Lips , which are more rare and sweet , Than Sugar and the Cinnamon , when they together meet . The sweet perfumed breath of thine , does such great pleasure bring , That when I Kiss , it makes me think upon another thing , 4. Oft have I in my folded Arms thy lovely Corpse embrac'd , Whereby with thy sweet Company my Person hath been grac'd ; But never could I so happy be to have my full delight , To daily Court and play with thee , and lie with thee all nigh 5. Oft have I much desired to hear , thy sweet melodious voice , Whose sugared Notes may seem to make a love sick Man rejoice ; The pretty toys , the Female joys , and rare conceits of thine Must either make a pleasant cure , or kill this heart of mine , 6. Oft have I took thee by the hand , a bargain for to make , And thou did also promise me thou wouldst not me forsake . Come now dear love , perform they vows , and ease me of my pain ; Or else with Cupids piercing Dart my Heart will soon be slave . The modest Maids Reply . KInd Sir , I thank you for your love and proffers made to me , In any thing that fitting is , your servant I will be ; But in some words that you have spo [ ke ] you greatly are to blame ; Therefore leave off your found discour [ se ] I cannot brook the same , 2. Your praising of me over much , it does not like me well ; For some Men will dissemble most , when fairest words they tell . Even as the silly fish is caught , with a deluding Bait , So young men think to catch poor Mai [ ds ] by cunning and deceit . 3 Soft fire they say , sweet malt does ma [ ke ] and some say haste makes waste , Some in their journey tyre themselves with running over fas Strong Wines do soon inflame the Brain sweet meats do surfeits bring , And young Men make fair promise [ s ] when they mean no such thing , 4 , Oft have I herd a Proverb tol [ worser ] in which I have a share , Happy the Maid , who by others harm can learn for to beware : This Lessons good for all young Maid [ s ] to learn and keep indeed , The better use they make thereof , the better they may speed . 5 , And now young Man I tell you true I tell you flat and plain : Except you mind to marry me , your labour is in vain . Its not the tempting looks of thine , nor thy enticing Tongue , Shall blemish the good Name of mine , nor do my body wrong . 6 , When as the young Man understoo [ worser ] to what the Maid was bent , Most kindly he saluted her , and so away they went , He liked her , she liked him . matters were so well carried , That on the morrow morning next they Kissed and after married . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 54 ) The flattering young Man and the modest Maid . To be Sung to the pleasant Tune of , The Duke of Florence March . The young Man's Affection . OFt have I vow'd to love no one , but when I think on thee , I have no power for to give o're , thy Captive I must be ; So many looks and graces dwells between these Lips and Eyes , That whosoever sees thy Face , must once be made a prize . 2. Oft have I view'd thy comely parts from head unto the toe , Which makes me fry in Cupids flames , the truth of all is so ; For when I lie upon my Bed , in hope's to take my rest , I cannot sleep to think on thee , whom I in heart love best . 3. Oft have I Kissed thy Rudie Lips , which are more rare and sweet , Than Sugar and the Cinnamon , when they together meet . The sweet perfumed breath of thine , does such great pleasure bring , That when I Kiss , it makes me think upon another thing , 4. Oft have I in my folded Arms thy lovely Corpse embrac'd , Whereby with thy sweet Company my Person hath been grac'd ; But never could I so happy be to have my full delight , To daily Court and play with thee , and lie with thee all nigh 5. Oft have I much desired to hear , thy sweet melodious voice , Whose sugared Notes may seem to make a love sick Man rejoice ; The pretty toys , the Female joys , and rare conceits of thine Must either make a pleasant cure , or kill this heart of mine , 6. Oft have I took thee by the hand , a bargain for to make , And thou did also promise me thou wouldst not me forsake . Come now dear love , perform they vows , and ease me of my pain ; Or else with Cupids piercing Dart my Heart will soon be slave . The modest Maids Reply . KInd Sir , I thank you for your love and proffers made to me , In any thing that fitting is , your servant I will be ; But in some words that you have spo [ ke ] you greatly are to blame ; Therefore leave off your found discour [ se ] I cannot brook the same , 2. Your praising of me over much , it does not like me well ; For some Men will dissemble most , when fairest words they tell . Even as the silly fish is caught , with a deluding Bait , So young men think to catch poor Mai [ ds ] by cunning and deceit . 3 Soft fire they say , sweet malt does ma [ ke ] and some say haste makes waste , Some in their journey tyre themselves with running over fas Strong Wines do soon inflame the Brain sweet meats do surfeits bring , And young Men make fair promise [ s ] when they mean no such thing , 4 , Oft have I herd a Proverb tol [ worser ] in which I have a share , Happy the Maid , who by others harm can learn for to beware : This Lessons good for all young Maid [ s ] to learn and keep indeed , The better use they make thereof , the better they may speed . 5 , And now young Man I tell you true I tell you flat and plain : Except you mind to marry me , your labour is in vain . Its not the tempting looks of thine , nor thy enticing Tongue , Shall blemish the good Name of mine , nor do my body wrong . 6 , When as the young Man understoo [ worser ] to what the Maid was bent , Most kindly he saluted her , and so away they went , He liked her , she liked him . matters were so well carried , That on the morrow morning next they Kissed and after married . FINIS . 