C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 57 ) R The Birks of Abergeldy A New Song , To its own Proper Tune . ( 1 ) Oh Bonny Lassie wilt thou go , Wilt thou go , wilt thou go , Oh bonny Lassie wilt thou go To the Birks of Abergeldy , My dear Sir , I dare not gang , I dare not gang , I dare not gang , My dear Sir , I dare not gang , For fear that you betray me . ( 2 ) Thou need not fear , my dearest Life , My dearest life , etc , That ever I will leave thee , For I will stay with thee all day , With thee all day , etc And from all fears defend thee . ( 3 ) Abergeldy Birks are very cold , Are very cold , etc The weather very frosty . My dear I'll hug thee in my Arms , In my Arms , etc And wrap thee in my Plaidie , ( 4 ) But what if I do prove with Child , Do prove with Child , etc , To thee a Highland Laddie , Oh then in haste I'll marry thee . I'll marry thee , etc And then thou'll be a Lady , ( 5 ) Abergeldy is too near my Friends , Too near my Friends , etc , Their Eyes on me are steady , But if thou'll go to Edinburgh , To Edinburgh , etc I'm at they service ready . The second Part to the same Tune ( 1 ) BEssie is my Bed made , My Bed made , etc , Or is my Supper ready . Bessie if my Bed were made , My Bed were made , etc The less Meat would serve me . ( 6 ) I would have my Gown made , My Gown made , etc In the Birks of Abergeldey ; Side and wide about the Tail , About the Tail , etc , And gimp about the Body . ( 7 ) As I went throw the Moor of Skeen , The Moor of Skeen , etc St. Johnstoun lay well near me . I laid my Sword among the Broom Among the Broom , etc And often kiss'd my Dearie . FINIS , C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 57 ) R The Birks of Abergeldy A New Song , To its own Proper Tune . ( 1 ) Oh Bonny Lassie wilt thou go , Wilt thou go , wilt thou go , Oh bonny Lassie wilt thou go To the Birks of Abergeldy , My dear Sir , I dare not gang , I dare not gang , I dare not gang , My dear Sir , I dare not gang , For fear that you betray me . ( 2 ) Thou need not fear , my dearest Life , My dearest life , etc , That ever I will leave thee , For I will stay with thee all day , With thee all day , etc And from all fears defend thee . ( 3 ) Abergeldy Birks are very cold , Are very cold , etc The weather very frosty . My dear I'll hug thee in my Arms , In my Arms , etc And wrap thee in my Plaidie , ( 4 ) But what if I do prove with Child , Do prove with Child , etc , To thee a Highland Laddie , Oh then in haste I'll marry thee . I'll marry thee , etc And then thou'll be a Lady , ( 5 ) Abergeldy is too near my Friends , Too near my Friends , etc , Their Eyes on me are steady , But if thou'll go to Edinburgh , To Edinburgh , etc I'm at they service ready . The second Part to the same Tune ( 1 ) BEssie is my Bed made , My Bed made , etc , Or is my Supper ready . Bessie if my Bed were made , My Bed were made , etc The less Meat would serve me . ( 6 ) I would have my Gown made , My Gown made , etc In the Birks of Abergeldey ; Side and wide about the Tail , About the Tail , etc , And gimp about the Body . ( 7 ) As I went throw the Moor of Skeen , The Moor of Skeen , etc St. Johnstoun lay well near me . I laid my Sword among the Broom Among the Broom , etc And often kiss'd my Dearie . FINIS , 