C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 55 ) ALLAN WATER : OR , A LOVER IN CAPTIVITY : A NEW SONG : Sung with a pleasant New Air . ALLAN Water's wide and deep , and my dear Anny's very bonny ; Wides the Straith that lies above't , if't were mine I'de give it all for Anny ; But why , Oh why should she disdain , since my Heart's Love to her I carry Though I had a Thousand Hearts in one unshar'd I'de give them all to Anny . Her Countenance and her black Hair first captiv'd me , and then like Thunder She disappear'd and ruin'd me , and my poor Heart's quite burned to Tinder , But why , Oh why should I dsspair ? for sure the gods to pity will move her . And send her this Heart of mine , some cooling Balsom so deliver . Dear Anny wilt thou look and see , and sure I am thou'll take compassion On this poor Heart that mourns for thee , such love alas is out of fashion , All Day I wish , all Night I sighs , and still I hope to find her changed , But ah , alas all is in vain , for sure my Ruin is designed , FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 55 ) ALLAN WATER : OR , A LOVER IN CAPTIVITY : A NEW SONG : Sung with a pleasant New Air . ALLAN Water's wide and deep , and my dear Anny's very bonny ; Wides the Straith that lies above't , if't were mine I'de give it all for Anny ; But why , Oh why should she disdain , since my Heart's Love to her I carry Though I had a Thousand Hearts in one unshar'd I'de give them all to Anny . Her Countenance and her black Hair first captiv'd me , and then like Thunder She disappear'd and ruin'd me , and my poor Heart's quite burned to Tinder , But why , Oh why should I dsspair ? for sure the gods to pity will move her . And send her this Heart of mine , some cooling Balsom so deliver . Dear Anny wilt thou look and see , and sure I am thou'll take compassion On this poor Heart that mourns for thee , such love alas is out of fashion , All Day I wish , all Night I sighs , and still I hope to find her changed , But ah , alas all is in vain , for sure my Ruin is designed , FINIS . 