C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 64 ) Lady Ann's new Mill. AWake now Muse , and so Peruse Thyself now in this bit of time , Help me to use and not abuse Some sense now in this piece of Rhyme ; And so to Write , that no debate , May after Threaten , Hurt or Kill , But still may thrive , and so describe , The birth of Lady Ann's New Mill , In our Muirland , this Mill does stand Upon that River Aven side . From the West Bridge not half a Ridge Who Fortune's throw that pass to ride . From the Bridge head , look east the led Where you may spy the Shilling Hill Upon the Lee to let you see A sighed of Lady Ann's New Mill. From the Bridge West , then turn at last Look up the water where you'l see , Our new Dam-head well fortified . and strongly built with stone and tree Slamannan Lairds conveen'd in Guards , To try the outmost of their skill , To see if they could find a way , To stop our Lady Ann's new Mill , That Crowd did swear , you must forbear : And not drown all our Pastor's crap ; Poor , simple Men , do you not ken , It grows the better it get sap ; No Sacrilege , I dare oblige , By all our work is done you till ; Therefore misken your fliting then Against our Lady Ann's New Mill , And live in peace , let sorrow cease , Let your Superior alone , If you will not I'll hold a Groat , You'l rew e're all the play be done : Then do not boast for law breeds coast ; But mind you are our Vassals still . Think you not shame to own your Name Against our Lady Ann's New Mill. Your Parson sure cannot be poor , his Glib is large where grows his corn And our mill-dam fills up the same His rigs to water e'en and morn , And for our part we'll prove our art His Malt and corn to grind or shill Come when he please he'll find and Ease , At our brave Lady Ann's New Mill You Muirland Men by Eight or Ten , Twenty , Thirty , less or mae the may come here , you need not fear Indeed you shall be guided sae You Lawrance Whigs come North your rigs What time you have your Corn to shill After your Priest you shall be niest To grind at Lady Ann's New Mill John Beg our Wright , and Artist tied , And Architect , with lime and stane , Did built her high , and caus'd her cry , And waken'd all the Nymph's ilk ane Both far and near , her Tune did steir , Her found was herd at Rashihill , Out through the Jaw , they told me a , They herd the clinks of our New Mill At Castlehill , her clap rang shill , They marvel'd all what it might be , And at Dalwhairns she fleid the Bairns Old folk came to the door to see , The Laird was near at them did spear , What is the thing you harken till , Poor foolish Men do you not ken , It is our Lady Ann's New Mill ? I hear said ane , and swears Amen , Four Mills the clink how may this be We hear of one , but mae there's none Where frae came all the other Three ? The Laird himself again did tell , Poor fools have you no better skill , The Nymph's does found there Echo's round And answer Lady Ann's New Mill ? Each feather'd fowl began to yowl , And cry alas , and dool ochen . Some Regiment sure , comes o'er the Muir , We're fair to loss our lives ilk ane , Hark here , such cracks comes o'er our backs So thick , so sharp , so loud and shill , Those beasts at last were in a gast For fear of Lady Ann's New Mill , Then in a Bog beside a Scrog They coured all right quietly , While Robin spoke I'll ken the knack . I'll send my wife the wran to see , She's little bouk and well can Jouk , No Musquet shot can do her ill , Then she took flight the way came Right , straight up to Lady Ann's New Mill , Where she did spy as we came by some sparrows that had lost their gate Fallen off their way did halt or stay Sat down upon the hill to Eat , You Mistress Wran where's your good man He comes not here to get a fill , For good Birds seed his guts to Feed , He'l get at Lady Ann's New Mill ? Then she came back where all that Pack Lay closely hid beneath the scrog , And told his tale made them all heal Get up and all flee west the bog , Where Robin Redbreast was their priest Sat down upon the shilling Hill , Invited all both great and small To feast at Lady Ann's New Mill Then doves and daws , pyots and craws Come flocking hither hastily . The Owl as blind no way can find In fair daylight he do's not see , Therefore a guide they must provide To led him right this feast until ; For in the Mirk he'l see to work And catch a mouse at our New Mill. Said one its good we do conclude The Goucks Titling it may be : And all the rest cry'd out its best , For so their votes did all agree : But while this Mirth did them begirth With Feasting on the Shilling hill , They Spy'd a Gled and then thy fled Away from Lady Ann's New Mill. Next Rats and Mice ne're spearing Price Came Creeping in right Secretly , And into holes did hid their Polls In Case the Miller should them see , Cut Holes in Sacks , shot in their Necks Did steal and rieve and lick their fill . So many a Guest did get a feast At our brave Lady Ann's New Mill. FINIS , C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 64 ) Lady Ann's new Mill. AWake now Muse , and so Peruse Thyself now in this bit of time , Help me to use and not abuse Some sense now in this piece of Rhyme ; And so to Write , that no debate , May after Threaten , Hurt or Kill , But still may thrive , and so describe , The birth of Lady Ann's New Mill , In our Muirland , this Mill does stand Upon that River Aven side . From the West Bridge not half a Ridge Who Fortune's throw that pass to ride . From the Bridge head , look east the led Where you may spy the Shilling Hill Upon the Lee to let you see A sighed of Lady Ann's New Mill. From the Bridge West , then turn at last Look up the water where you'l see , Our new Dam-head well fortified . and strongly built with stone and tree Slamannan Lairds conveen'd in Guards , To try the outmost of their skill , To see if they could find a way , To stop our Lady Ann's new Mill , That Crowd did swear , you must forbear : And not drown all our Pastor's crap ; Poor , simple Men , do you not ken , It grows the better it get sap ; No Sacrilege , I dare oblige , By all our work is done you till ; Therefore misken your fliting then Against our Lady Ann's New Mill , And live in peace , let sorrow cease , Let your Superior alone , If you will not I'll hold a Groat , You'l rew e're all the play be done : Then do not boast for law breeds coast ; But mind you are our Vassals still . Think you not shame to own your Name Against our Lady Ann's New Mill. Your Parson sure cannot be poor , his Glib is large where grows his corn And our mill-dam fills up the same His rigs to water e'en and morn , And for our part we'll prove our art His Malt and corn to grind or shill Come when he please he'll find and Ease , At our brave Lady Ann's New Mill You Muirland Men by Eight or Ten , Twenty , Thirty , less or mae the may come here , you need not fear Indeed you shall be guided sae You Lawrance Whigs come North your rigs What time you have your Corn to shill After your Priest you shall be niest To grind at Lady Ann's New Mill John Beg our Wright , and Artist tied , And Architect , with lime and stane , Did built her high , and caus'd her cry , And waken'd all the Nymph's ilk ane Both far and near , her Tune did steir , Her found was herd at Rashihill , Out through the Jaw , they told me a , They herd the clinks of our New Mill At Castlehill , her clap rang shill , They marvel'd all what it might be , And at Dalwhairns she fleid the Bairns Old folk came to the door to see , The Laird was near at them did spear , What is the thing you harken till , Poor foolish Men do you not ken , It is our Lady Ann's New Mill ? I hear said ane , and swears Amen , Four Mills the clink how may this be We hear of one , but mae there's none Where frae came all the other Three ? The Laird himself again did tell , Poor fools have you no better skill , The Nymph's does found there Echo's round And answer Lady Ann's New Mill ? Each feather'd fowl began to yowl , And cry alas , and dool ochen . Some Regiment sure , comes o'er the Muir , We're fair to loss our lives ilk ane , Hark here , such cracks comes o'er our backs So thick , so sharp , so loud and shill , Those beasts at last were in a gast For fear of Lady Ann's New Mill , Then in a Bog beside a Scrog They coured all right quietly , While Robin spoke I'll ken the knack . I'll send my wife the wran to see , She's little bouk and well can Jouk , No Musquet shot can do her ill , Then she took flight the way came Right , straight up to Lady Ann's New Mill , Where she did spy as we came by some sparrows that had lost their gate Fallen off their way did halt or stay Sat down upon the hill to Eat , You Mistress Wran where's your good man He comes not here to get a fill , For good Birds seed his guts to Feed , He'l get at Lady Ann's New Mill ? Then she came back where all that Pack Lay closely hid beneath the scrog , And told his tale made them all heal Get up and all flee west the bog , Where Robin Redbreast was their priest Sat down upon the shilling Hill , Invited all both great and small To feast at Lady Ann's New Mill Then doves and daws , pyots and craws Come flocking hither hastily . The Owl as blind no way can find In fair daylight he do's not see , Therefore a guide they must provide To led him right this feast until ; For in the Mirk he'l see to work And catch a mouse at our New Mill. Said one its good we do conclude The Goucks Titling it may be : And all the rest cry'd out its best , For so their votes did all agree : But while this Mirth did them begirth With Feasting on the Shilling hill , They Spy'd a Gled and then thy fled Away from Lady Ann's New Mill. Next Rats and Mice ne're spearing Price Came Creeping in right Secretly , And into holes did hid their Polls In Case the Miller should them see , Cut Holes in Sacks , shot in their Necks Did steal and rieve and lick their fill . So many a Guest did get a feast At our brave Lady Ann's New Mill. FINIS , 