C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 65 ) Robert Mureheads Lament , To a pleasant New Tune : LEave off my mind , why thinks thou on she that was once my Dear , Does thou not know that she is gone , and Married now I hear . What madness makes thee Recollect , to think on such a Maid ? Who always pay'd me with neglect , and my designs bewray'd . Why wakenest thou again my woe [ ? ] , and thus torments me , Who is the worst of all my Foes , who only Friend should be , Is she not dead to me , alace , except her Husband die ? I'll yet remember on her face , for all her cruelty . For I never saw a thing so Fair , since I had Eyes to see , A thing that was both Chaste and rair , a thing that ravished me , In modesty she did exceed , the most of Woman kind , Oh though she had no fault indeed gift that she had been mine . I wot in my conceit I swear , and constancy to thee . While no man could withstand her feat nor shun her destiny , I loved her well she lov'd not me , she was ungrate you'l say . Some said it was but policy , Oh what great fools were they . For I tried all the Civil Arts , that ever any used , With tears I did proclaim my smart , yet daily was abused , I am sure if ever she had loved , at length she would have shown'd , Sh [ e ] slighted me and so she prov'd , and manfully disown'd , Unhappy I if I recall , these peevish thoughts again . To bring my spirit under thrall , to repossess my pain , If I had never seen her face , I had not fainted so , To offer up a sacrifice , to any thing below : FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 65 ) Robert Mureheads Lament , To a pleasant New Tune : LEave off my mind , why thinks thou on she that was once my Dear , Does thou not know that she is gone , and Married now I hear . What madness makes thee Recollect , to think on such a Maid ? Who always pay'd me with neglect , and my designs bewray'd . Why wakenest thou again my woe [ ? ] , and thus torments me , Who is the worst of all my Foes , who only Friend should be , Is she not dead to me , alace , except her Husband die ? I'll yet remember on her face , for all her cruelty . For I never saw a thing so Fair , since I had Eyes to see , A thing that was both Chaste and rair , a thing that ravished me , In modesty she did exceed , the most of Woman kind , Oh though she had no fault indeed gift that she had been mine . I wot in my conceit I swear , and constancy to thee . While no man could withstand her feat nor shun her destiny , I loved her well she lov'd not me , she was ungrate you'l say . Some said it was but policy , Oh what great fools were they . For I tried all the Civil Arts , that ever any used , With tears I did proclaim my smart , yet daily was abused , I am sure if ever she had loved , at length she would have shown'd , Sh [ e ] slighted me and so she prov'd , and manfully disown'd , Unhappy I if I recall , these peevish thoughts again . To bring my spirit under thrall , to repossess my pain , If I had never seen her face , I had not fainted so , To offer up a sacrifice , to any thing below : FINIS . 