C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 59 ) THE NEW BALLAD . OF THE LASS OF PEATIES MILL . To its own Proper Tune . INto the month of March , As I went to the North , Beyond the Carnemont . Far beyond Tay and Forth , I came to Peaty Kirk , And there I lodg'd all night ; Where that I saw a Lass Of beauty shining bright , I thought her my delight , When I did her behold : And thought I would not quite Her for her weight of Gold . Her beauty for to tell , Does far surmount my skill . This dainty Nymph was call'd , The Lass of Peaties Mill. This Lass of Peaties Mill , To speak for none will spare : Many one came to woo her , Because she was so fair , Because she was so fair , Love , And blinkt blithe in her eye , Oh if this bonny Lassie , Would grant to marry me . From Peatie Kirk I went , Then down to Peaties Mill , To give this Lass a visit , And asked her good will , She answer'd me discreetly , With words loving and kind : And there we kissed sweetly , But fortune crossed my mind . For if I lov'd her well , Her father lov'd her better : Her friends and mother lov'd her so , That I could never get her , But I shall write a Letter , When all these days are done , Unto the gouk that gets her , He wears but my old shoes . For after speaking to her friends , To her I did resort ; And since her friends refused me , I thought to play a spor And went to seek comfort Unto this Maid most rare ; Because in heart I thought , I nev'r saw one so fair . Sweet heart to her I said , Will thou grant me good will , And I shall bless the day , I came to Peaties Mill. Alace ! for love I die ; For never saw I none , Like thee for rare beauty . Good Sir , if you speak true , And faithful , did she say , I shall be very loath For to cast you away . Welcome both night and day , You may come me until . And heartly welcome shall you be To grind at Peaties Mill. To grind's not my desire : But for to play with you , My heart is set on fire , Dear heart , for love of you , Therefore hear what I say , And grant me thy good will , And I shall bless the day I came to Peaties Mill. Then sweet [ ee ] tly we did kiss , And then began to play : But when her friends did miss Her Maidenhead away . They fought me night and day ; Till that I came them till : And I was welcome too To grind at Peaties Mill. We wedded were with speed , But I too long did stay : For she delivered Was on her wedding day . But now I'le mourn no more , As I before have done , Nor will my sweet compare Again to my old shoes . She at this time brought forth A rare and gallant boy , Which was his mother's mirth ; Also his father's joy . Then hence away annoy , For all that hath been done : There is no frolic boy , Dare put on my old shoes . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 59 ) THE NEW BALLAD . OF THE LASS OF PEATIES MILL . To its own Proper Tune . INto the month of March , As I went to the North , Beyond the Carnemont . Far beyond Tay and Forth , I came to Peaty Kirk , And there I lodg'd all night ; Where that I saw a Lass Of beauty shining bright , I thought her my delight , When I did her behold : And thought I would not quite Her for her weight of Gold . Her beauty for to tell , Does far surmount my skill . This dainty Nymph was call'd , The Lass of Peaties Mill. This Lass of Peaties Mill , To speak for none will spare : Many one came to woo her , Because she was so fair , Because she was so fair , Love , And blinkt blithe in her eye , Oh if this bonny Lassie , Would grant to marry me . From Peatie Kirk I went , Then down to Peaties Mill , To give this Lass a visit , And asked her good will , She answer'd me discreetly , With words loving and kind : And there we kissed sweetly , But fortune crossed my mind . For if I lov'd her well , Her father lov'd her better : Her friends and mother lov'd her so , That I could never get her , But I shall write a Letter , When all these days are done , Unto the gouk that gets her , He wears but my old shoes . For after speaking to her friends , To her I did resort ; And since her friends refused me , I thought to play a spor And went to seek comfort Unto this Maid most rare ; Because in heart I thought , I nev'r saw one so fair . Sweet heart to her I said , Will thou grant me good will , And I shall bless the day , I came to Peaties Mill. Alace ! for love I die ; For never saw I none , Like thee for rare beauty . Good Sir , if you speak true , And faithful , did she say , I shall be very loath For to cast you away . Welcome both night and day , You may come me until . And heartly welcome shall you be To grind at Peaties Mill. To grind's not my desire : But for to play with you , My heart is set on fire , Dear heart , for love of you , Therefore hear what I say , And grant me thy good will , And I shall bless the day I came to Peaties Mill. Then sweet [ ee ] tly we did kiss , And then began to play : But when her friends did miss Her Maidenhead away . They fought me night and day ; Till that I came them till : And I was welcome too To grind at Peaties Mill. We wedded were with speed , But I too long did stay : For she delivered Was on her wedding day . But now I'le mourn no more , As I before have done , Nor will my sweet compare Again to my old shoes . She at this time brought forth A rare and gallant boy , Which was his mother's mirth ; Also his father's joy . Then hence away annoy , For all that hath been done : There is no frolic boy , Dare put on my old shoes . FINIS . 