C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 63 ) The Bonny LASS of Branksome . AS I came in by Tiviot side and by the braes of Branksome There met I with a pretty Lass , that was both neat and handsome : If that her mother say me nay then with the Daughter will I play , Whither that she will or nay have at the bonny Lassie Dame gar fill to us more Beer for lo here is more Money And for our reckoning do not fear so long as we have any . Gar fill the Cup gar fill the Can Here is a Health to our Good-Man , We shall be merry e'er we gang have at the bonny Lassie . I dream'd before it came to pass that I would find her willing , But yet I knew not what she was , though she and I were Wooing , My Thought my Mind and mine Intent To seek that Lass was ready bea At last by order we were sent ; to quarter up at Branksome . Her hastily I did espy , though I was but a stranger , A Ribbon about her Arm I did ty , and told her of her Danger . Sweet Heart I have sought many Place Yet never could I see thy Face , Take pity and relieve my Case , my pretty bonny Lassie . I need not to conceal my Name I'm Born within this Nation : Bred in great Honour Wealth and Fame and of high Estimation . Great Nobles were my Cousin's near , And I a Noble Man of weir Therefore be Merry and make good Cheer my pretty bonny Lassie . Then did she say my only joy , I will give you Contentment , If you will be my Venus Boy : and give me no Affrontment . 'Twill credit me and all my Kin , If I your Love and Favour win , My happiness shall then begin when you my Fancy pleasure . My Father and Mother will be glad , to you they have Relation ; Because you are a bonny Lad , and well Born in this Nation - You shall dispose of half their Gear , And Money get to spend by Year , Both Meal and Malt Corn and Bear , for your sweet bonny Lassie . He says I court you not for Wealth for I have Gold and Money , But I had rather have thy self , for thou art neat and bonny : Sweet Heart I'le be content of you , if that they give me but a Cow , And I to you do make a Vow , to be thy Venus servant . It is not for thy Father's Gear , nor for thy worldly Riches , That I am come a Suitor here , that we Two may be matches . For I may have a Lady fair , Whose Friends would gladly give me Gear She hath Five Hundred Marks a Year beside my just Proportion . The Lass with smiling Lips then said this is a true Narration , That many a gallant lusty Lad , to me bears such Relation : Yea many and able pretty Man Would gladly give to me their Hand , And bow and be at my Command , but fortune now does cross them . Now well's me of my pretty Lass , that has so soon consented , I was but short while in that Place , while she grew loving hearted . My gallant proper handsome Dove , That was not strange and ill to Woo , But presently did yield and bow , and granted me my asking : Sweet Sir I could not say you hay , you are so well accounted , My Maidenhead bade me give way , when I saw you so mounted , With Horse and harness , Spear and Shield And Venus caused me to yield , 'Mongst all my Woers I you wield , because you were so Gentle . There's many Suitors came to me before your Love began Sir , And boar me frequent Company , but they no Favour wan Sir , Now are they almost gone astray , With many shout and wall away , That ever they should have seen this Day and what you do unto them . I do Disdain no Gentleman that's Born within this Nation , For I'm a Woman of the same , and of high Estimation , My Mother says I am right sib To the House of Branksome being Rib You will be gallant Wove to Wove , i' justly put together . At length into the North I went to visit Friends and Father : When I came back , some Days being spent her Mother thought me braver . She to her Daughter says Go Down , Thy Lover now is come to Town , Be kind to him , and I a Gown , will give thee for thy Pains Jo , To go with him I will be glad or do him any pleasure . Let us first Wed then go to Bed , where it will wait his leisure You do me Wrong to bid me Hast , For I will Run as he me chas When Shirt is clean and Clothes unlac'd from Cold I'le strive to keep him . Her Mother's bidding she obey'd , and went into the Chamber ; Where he discours'd with her and played without Noise or Clamour , He said , my Dove thou hast some Skill And bearest Company with Good will I wish I might remain here still , it's neither Cold nor Frosty : This is the Place which I do love : and is well kept in Order : And no Man this will disapprove , that lives in Southern border Where nothing is of Iron or Brass , Then freely will I let you pass , And hold you for a pretty Lass , for keeping all so cleanly . Your Uncle is no Friend to me , I have him at Envy : He said I laid my Love too high , before some Company . But what ado had he think you ; To meddle with my Love and me For Love is laid in each Degree have at the bonny Lassie . Sweet Sir I was once soar afraid you had delay'd your coming , Your tarrying made me soar afraid , I weary was with mourning . But now I neither tire nor irk , To bear you Compn'y in the Mirk , Then gar proclaim us in the Kirk , and we shall wed together . Each one said you would not return nor come into this Nation : Which daily made me for to mourn with grievous lamentation , But seeing you'r come back again Of your coming I'm right fain , And altogether free of Pain you shall lie in my Bosom When you into the Country came oh then but you were bonny , My Mother took you in her Arms , and said you were her honey , Then unto Hawick did we gang And of the Way we thought not Long , Of us composed was the Song My pretty bonny Lassie . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 63 ) The Bonny LASS of Branksome . AS I came in by Tiviot side and by the braes of Branksome There met I with a pretty Lass , that was both neat and handsome : If that her mother say me nay then with the Daughter will I play , Whither that she will or nay have at the bonny Lassie Dame gar fill to us more Beer for lo here is more Money And for our reckoning do not fear so long as we have any . Gar fill the Cup gar fill the Can Here is a Health to our Good-Man , We shall be merry e'er we gang have at the bonny Lassie . I dream'd before it came to pass that I would find her willing , But yet I knew not what she was , though she and I were Wooing , My Thought my Mind and mine Intent To seek that Lass was ready bea At last by order we were sent ; to quarter up at Branksome . Her hastily I did espy , though I was but a stranger , A Ribbon about her Arm I did ty , and told her of her Danger . Sweet Heart I have sought many Place Yet never could I see thy Face , Take pity and relieve my Case , my pretty bonny Lassie . I need not to conceal my Name I'm Born within this Nation : Bred in great Honour Wealth and Fame and of high Estimation . Great Nobles were my Cousin's near , And I a Noble Man of weir Therefore be Merry and make good Cheer my pretty bonny Lassie . Then did she say my only joy , I will give you Contentment , If you will be my Venus Boy : and give me no Affrontment . 'Twill credit me and all my Kin , If I your Love and Favour win , My happiness shall then begin when you my Fancy pleasure . My Father and Mother will be glad , to you they have Relation ; Because you are a bonny Lad , and well Born in this Nation - You shall dispose of half their Gear , And Money get to spend by Year , Both Meal and Malt Corn and Bear , for your sweet bonny Lassie . He says I court you not for Wealth for I have Gold and Money , But I had rather have thy self , for thou art neat and bonny : Sweet Heart I'le be content of you , if that they give me but a Cow , And I to you do make a Vow , to be thy Venus servant . It is not for thy Father's Gear , nor for thy worldly Riches , That I am come a Suitor here , that we Two may be matches . For I may have a Lady fair , Whose Friends would gladly give me Gear She hath Five Hundred Marks a Year beside my just Proportion . The Lass with smiling Lips then said this is a true Narration , That many a gallant lusty Lad , to me bears such Relation : Yea many and able pretty Man Would gladly give to me their Hand , And bow and be at my Command , but fortune now does cross them . Now well's me of my pretty Lass , that has so soon consented , I was but short while in that Place , while she grew loving hearted . My gallant proper handsome Dove , That was not strange and ill to Woo , But presently did yield and bow , and granted me my asking : Sweet Sir I could not say you hay , you are so well accounted , My Maidenhead bade me give way , when I saw you so mounted , With Horse and harness , Spear and Shield And Venus caused me to yield , 'Mongst all my Woers I you wield , because you were so Gentle . There's many Suitors came to me before your Love began Sir , And boar me frequent Company , but they no Favour wan Sir , Now are they almost gone astray , With many shout and wall away , That ever they should have seen this Day and what you do unto them . I do Disdain no Gentleman that's Born within this Nation , For I'm a Woman of the same , and of high Estimation , My Mother says I am right sib To the House of Branksome being Rib You will be gallant Wove to Wove , i' justly put together . At length into the North I went to visit Friends and Father : When I came back , some Days being spent her Mother thought me braver . She to her Daughter says Go Down , Thy Lover now is come to Town , Be kind to him , and I a Gown , will give thee for thy Pains Jo , To go with him I will be glad or do him any pleasure . Let us first Wed then go to Bed , where it will wait his leisure You do me Wrong to bid me Hast , For I will Run as he me chas When Shirt is clean and Clothes unlac'd from Cold I'le strive to keep him . Her Mother's bidding she obey'd , and went into the Chamber ; Where he discours'd with her and played without Noise or Clamour , He said , my Dove thou hast some Skill And bearest Company with Good will I wish I might remain here still , it's neither Cold nor Frosty : This is the Place which I do love : and is well kept in Order : And no Man this will disapprove , that lives in Southern border Where nothing is of Iron or Brass , Then freely will I let you pass , And hold you for a pretty Lass , for keeping all so cleanly . Your Uncle is no Friend to me , I have him at Envy : He said I laid my Love too high , before some Company . But what ado had he think you ; To meddle with my Love and me For Love is laid in each Degree have at the bonny Lassie . Sweet Sir I was once soar afraid you had delay'd your coming , Your tarrying made me soar afraid , I weary was with mourning . But now I neither tire nor irk , To bear you Compn'y in the Mirk , Then gar proclaim us in the Kirk , and we shall wed together . Each one said you would not return nor come into this Nation : Which daily made me for to mourn with grievous lamentation , But seeing you'r come back again Of your coming I'm right fain , And altogether free of Pain you shall lie in my Bosom When you into the Country came oh then but you were bonny , My Mother took you in her Arms , and said you were her honey , Then unto Hawick did we gang And of the Way we thought not Long , Of us composed was the Song My pretty bonny Lassie . FINIS . 