C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 70 ) And Excellent and proper New Ballad , Entitled , OLD LONG SYNE , Newly corrected and amended , with a large and new Edition of several excellent Love Lines . To be sung with its own proper Musical sweet Tune . SHould Old Acquaintance be forgotten , and never thought upon ; The flames of Love extinguished , and folly past and gone : Is thy sweet Heart now grown so cold , that loving Breast of thine ; That thou canst never once reflect on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin , That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . My Heart is ravished with delight , when thee I think upon ; All Grief and Sorrow takes the flight , and speedily is gone : The bright resemblance of thy Face , so fills this Heart of mine ; That Force nor Fate can me displease , for Old long sin For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin , That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . Since thoughts of thee does banish grief , when from thee I am gone ; Will not thy presence yield relief , to this sad Heart of mine : Why does thy presence me defeat , with excellence divine ? Especially when I reflect on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin : That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . O then Clorinda pray prove more kind , be not ungrateful still : Since that my Heart you have so ty'd , why should you then it kill : Sure Faith and Hope depends on thee , kill me not with disdain : Or else I swear I'le still reflect , on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; I pray you do but once reflect , on Old long sin . Since you have rob'd me of my Heart , it's reason I have yours ; Which Madam Nature does impart , to your black Eyes and Brows : With honour it does not consist , to hold thy Slave in pain : Pray let thy rigour then resist , for Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . It is my freedom I do crave , by deprecating pain ; Since liberty you will not give , who glories in his Changed [ a ] in : But yet I wish the gods to move that noble Heart of thine ; To pity since you cannot love , for Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin ; That thou may ever once reflect , on Old long sin . Dear will you give me back my Heart , since I cannot have thine ; For since with yours you will not part , no reason you have mine : But yet I think I'le let it lie , within that breast of thine , Who would [ tO ] h a Thief in every Eye , to make me live in pain . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin ; Wilt thou not ever once reflect , on Old long sin . THE SECOND PART . WHere are thy Protestations , thy Vows and Oaths my Dear ; Thou made to me and I to thee , in Register yet clear . Is Faith and Truth so violate , to immortal Gods divine , As never once for to reflect , on Old long sin ; On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect . on Old long sin . It's Cupid's Fears or Frosty Cares that makes thy Spirits decay : Or it's and Object of more worth , hath stolen my Heart away ? Or some desert makes thee neglect her , so much once was thine . That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . Is Worldly cares so desperate , that makes thee to despair ? Is't that , that thee exasperats , and makes thee to forbear ? If thou of Ty , were free as I , Thou truly should be mine , If this were true we should renew kind Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin , That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . But since that nothing can prevail and all hope's are in vain ; From these rejected Eyes of mine , still showers of Tears shall rain : Although thou has me now forgotten , yet I'le continue thine ; And ne'r neglect for to reflect , on Old long sin On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . If ever I hava a house my Dear , that's truly called mine ; That can afford but Country cheer , or ought that's good therein : Though thou wertenberg Rebel to the King and beatrice with Wind and Rain , Assure thy self of welcome Love , for Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin , Assure thy self of welcome Love , for Old long sin . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 70 ) And Excellent and proper New Ballad , Entitled , OLD LONG SYNE , Newly corrected and amended , with a large and new Edition of several excellent Love Lines . To be sung with its own proper Musical sweet Tune . SHould Old Acquaintance be forgotten , and never thought upon ; The flames of Love extinguished , and folly past and gone : Is thy sweet Heart now grown so cold , that loving Breast of thine ; That thou canst never once reflect on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin , That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . My Heart is ravished with delight , when thee I think upon ; All Grief and Sorrow takes the flight , and speedily is gone : The bright resemblance of thy Face , so fills this Heart of mine ; That Force nor Fate can me displease , for Old long sin For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin , That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . Since thoughts of thee does banish grief , when from thee I am gone ; Will not thy presence yield relief , to this sad Heart of mine : Why does thy presence me defeat , with excellence divine ? Especially when I reflect on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin : That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . O then Clorinda pray prove more kind , be not ungrateful still : Since that my Heart you have so ty'd , why should you then it kill : Sure Faith and Hope depends on thee , kill me not with disdain : Or else I swear I'le still reflect , on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; I pray you do but once reflect , on Old long sin . Since you have rob'd me of my Heart , it's reason I have yours ; Which Madam Nature does impart , to your black Eyes and Brows : With honour it does not consist , to hold thy Slave in pain : Pray let thy rigour then resist , for Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . It is my freedom I do crave , by deprecating pain ; Since liberty you will not give , who glories in his Changed [ a ] in : But yet I wish the gods to move that noble Heart of thine ; To pity since you cannot love , for Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin ; That thou may ever once reflect , on Old long sin . Dear will you give me back my Heart , since I cannot have thine ; For since with yours you will not part , no reason you have mine : But yet I think I'le let it lie , within that breast of thine , Who would [ tO ] h a Thief in every Eye , to make me live in pain . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin ; Wilt thou not ever once reflect , on Old long sin . THE SECOND PART . WHere are thy Protestations , thy Vows and Oaths my Dear ; Thou made to me and I to thee , in Register yet clear . Is Faith and Truth so violate , to immortal Gods divine , As never once for to reflect , on Old long sin ; On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect . on Old long sin . It's Cupid's Fears or Frosty Cares that makes thy Spirits decay : Or it's and Object of more worth , hath stolen my Heart away ? Or some desert makes thee neglect her , so much once was thine . That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . Is Worldly cares so desperate , that makes thee to despair ? Is't that , that thee exasperats , and makes thee to forbear ? If thou of Ty , were free as I , Thou truly should be mine , If this were true we should renew kind Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin , That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . But since that nothing can prevail and all hope's are in vain ; From these rejected Eyes of mine , still showers of Tears shall rain : Although thou has me now forgotten , yet I'le continue thine ; And ne'r neglect for to reflect , on Old long sin On Old long sin my Jo , on Old long sin ; That thou canst never once reflect , on Old long sin . If ever I hava a house my Dear , that's truly called mine ; That can afford but Country cheer , or ought that's good therein : Though thou wertenberg Rebel to the King and beatrice with Wind and Rain , Assure thy self of welcome Love , for Old long sin . For Old long sin my Jo , for Old long sin , Assure thy self of welcome Love , for Old long sin . FINIS . 