C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 76 ) Margaret Dickson's penitential Confession , WHat former Friend may ease my trou - bled Thought When Midnight Darkness comprehends me round , And I'm before the dread Tribunal brought , Call'd by the last and awful Trumpet's Found . My former Crimes I to my Mind now call , And all the gross Trespasses think upon Where I've and Actor been ; no Wretch alive Deserves more certain and more sure a Doom . The whole Creation was ordain'd by God , The Wonders of his Truth to magnify , But he'll them chasten with his awful Rod , When they slight Grace that's set before their Eye . My younger Days I lavished away In Frailties that's too common unto Youth , And to each since I made my self a Prey , By which my Vices were in every Mouth . But yet that awful God , whose Frown can make The Vassal Globe of his Creation shake , Did mark my Steps , brandished my since Of Murder , and I was caught therein . Before the Justice Seat soon was I born , Where lives no Fraud , nor Witness are suborn , Who found me guilty of that barbarous Crime , And did , by Law , end this wretched Life of mine . But God , whose Mercy does so far extend , That from one Pole to th'other it does not end , Did me preserve , as and Example high Of divine Omnipotence , which humane Sighed can't spy . So I'm absolved from Men's servile Laws , Who dive into th' Effects , but not the Cause . A Life of Sanctity I purpos'd hence to led , But nat'ral Corruptions did almighty Graco exceed . Had it but pleas'd my Great , Almighty Maker , To take my Soul when finish'd was the Creature , Into his High , Celestial Courts above , Then I'd been blessed with his Almighty Love ; At his Tribunal then could I appear With joyful Face , nor sh [ e ] worser a sinful Tear : My Life , I hope , shou'd ended been in Glory , And not relaps'd to a more fatal Story , But all of new my Crimes I do repeat , Nor thinks upon the Terrors of my Fate . O thou , my God , my Soul do thou enligh [ tO ] en , That so my Faith , by Christ , I soon may heighten . 'Tis not the painful Agonies of Death , Nor all the gloomy Horrors of the Grave , Were these the worst , unmov'd I'd yield my Breath , And , with a Smile , the King of Terrors brave . But there's and After-day , 'tis that I fear , Ah , who shall hide me from that angry Brow , Already I the dreadful Accents hear , Depart from me , and that forever too . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 76 ) Margaret Dickson's penitential Confession , WHat former Friend may ease my trou - bled Thought When Midnight Darkness comprehends me round , And I'm before the dread Tribunal brought , Call'd by the last and awful Trumpet's Found . My former Crimes I to my Mind now call , And all the gross Trespasses think upon Where I've and Actor been ; no Wretch alive Deserves more certain and more sure a Doom . The whole Creation was ordain'd by God , The Wonders of his Truth to magnify , But he'll them chasten with his awful Rod , When they slight Grace that's set before their Eye . My younger Days I lavished away In Frailties that's too common unto Youth , And to each since I made my self a Prey , By which my Vices were in every Mouth . But yet that awful God , whose Frown can make The Vassal Globe of his Creation shake , Did mark my Steps , brandished my since Of Murder , and I was caught therein . Before the Justice Seat soon was I born , Where lives no Fraud , nor Witness are suborn , Who found me guilty of that barbarous Crime , And did , by Law , end this wretched Life of mine . But God , whose Mercy does so far extend , That from one Pole to th'other it does not end , Did me preserve , as and Example high Of divine Omnipotence , which humane Sighed can't spy . So I'm absolved from Men's servile Laws , Who dive into th' Effects , but not the Cause . A Life of Sanctity I purpos'd hence to led , But nat'ral Corruptions did almighty Graco exceed . Had it but pleas'd my Great , Almighty Maker , To take my Soul when finish'd was the Creature , Into his High , Celestial Courts above , Then I'd been blessed with his Almighty Love ; At his Tribunal then could I appear With joyful Face , nor sh [ e ] worser a sinful Tear : My Life , I hope , shou'd ended been in Glory , And not relaps'd to a more fatal Story , But all of new my Crimes I do repeat , Nor thinks upon the Terrors of my Fate . O thou , my God , my Soul do thou enligh [ tO ] en , That so my Faith , by Christ , I soon may heighten . 'Tis not the painful Agonies of Death , Nor all the gloomy Horrors of the Grave , Were these the worst , unmov'd I'd yield my Breath , And , with a Smile , the King of Terrors brave . But there's and After-day , 'tis that I fear , Ah , who shall hide me from that angry Brow , Already I the dreadful Accents hear , Depart from me , and that forever too . FINIS . 