C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 69 ) And Excellent New Song , ENTITLED A Bonny LAD of High Renown . To its own proper Tune . WHOM to shall I make my Address ? or whom to shall I make my Moan ? For the bonny Lad that I Lov'd best , another is come , and taken him me from . ( 2 ) A bonny Lad of High Renown , who Liv'd in Aberdeens fair Town , Courted Young Jenny blithe and gay ; but she Swore he's stolen her Heart away . ( 3 ) Oh Johny , Johny , thou art to blame , Oh Johny , Johny , thou art to blame , For once in the Meadow and twice in the Lee , I am sure I am we wi' Bairn to thee . ( 4 ) For it was into the Month of June , when the Birds did sing Melodious Tune . When my Love and I did sport and play , and with her I did dance around Allay , ( 5 ) Oh Johny , Johny , thou art to blame , Oh Jonny , Johny , thou art to blame For once in the Meadow , and twice in the Lee I am sure I am wi' Bairn to thee . ( 6 ) Wi' Bairn to me ! how can this be , for I was never in a Bed with thee , But once in the Meadow , and twice in the Lee And I'm sure this Bairn is not to me , For I never eat , but when I Drank , I never slept , but when I lay , I never talked but when I walked , and how couldst thou Father the Bairn on me ( 8 ) Oh Jeany , Jeany , thou art to blame , Oh Jeany , Jeany , thou art to blame , For once in the Meadow and twice in the Lee and thou has a father to the Bairn more than me ( 9 ) But I'le set my Love fare abroad , and at her Friends I'le ask no liberty , But let all true Archers and Men make bold but I myself will gain the Day . ( 10 ) My Love and I's like a Mine of Gold , planted in and Island in the Sea. Where Boats and Barks and Men make bold In that Curious Island for to see . ( 11 ) My Love and I's like a Mine of Gold , all Clothed o're on every side , Where Boats and Barks and Men Make bold By that overflwing of the Tide . ( 12 ) But if my Compass and my Carded , cannot me the right shhow , With my Led and my Line I'le play my part that Curious Island for to know . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 69 ) And Excellent New Song , ENTITLED A Bonny LAD of High Renown . To its own proper Tune . WHOM to shall I make my Address ? or whom to shall I make my Moan ? For the bonny Lad that I Lov'd best , another is come , and taken him me from . ( 2 ) A bonny Lad of High Renown , who Liv'd in Aberdeens fair Town , Courted Young Jenny blithe and gay ; but she Swore he's stolen her Heart away . ( 3 ) Oh Johny , Johny , thou art to blame , Oh Johny , Johny , thou art to blame , For once in the Meadow and twice in the Lee , I am sure I am we wi' Bairn to thee . ( 4 ) For it was into the Month of June , when the Birds did sing Melodious Tune . When my Love and I did sport and play , and with her I did dance around Allay , ( 5 ) Oh Johny , Johny , thou art to blame , Oh Jonny , Johny , thou art to blame For once in the Meadow , and twice in the Lee I am sure I am wi' Bairn to thee . ( 6 ) Wi' Bairn to me ! how can this be , for I was never in a Bed with thee , But once in the Meadow , and twice in the Lee And I'm sure this Bairn is not to me , For I never eat , but when I Drank , I never slept , but when I lay , I never talked but when I walked , and how couldst thou Father the Bairn on me ( 8 ) Oh Jeany , Jeany , thou art to blame , Oh Jeany , Jeany , thou art to blame , For once in the Meadow and twice in the Lee and thou has a father to the Bairn more than me ( 9 ) But I'le set my Love fare abroad , and at her Friends I'le ask no liberty , But let all true Archers and Men make bold but I myself will gain the Day . ( 10 ) My Love and I's like a Mine of Gold , planted in and Island in the Sea. Where Boats and Barks and Men make bold In that Curious Island for to see . ( 11 ) My Love and I's like a Mine of Gold , all Clothed o're on every side , Where Boats and Barks and Men Make bold By that overflwing of the Tide . ( 12 ) But if my Compass and my Carded , cannot me the right shhow , With my Led and my Line I'le play my part that Curious Island for to know . FINIS . 