C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 71 ) And Excellent new SONG , To the Tune of , OLD LONG SYNE . O CALEDON , Oh CALEDON , How wretched is thy Fate I , thy St. ANDREW do lament , Thy poor abandon'd State . O Caledon , Oh Caledon , How griev'd am I to think ; That thy sad Story written is , With Blood instead of Ink. IN Days of Yore you was renown'd , Conspicuous was your FAME , All Nations did your Valour Praise , And Loyalty Proclaim ; You did your Ancient Rights maintain , And Liberties defend , And scorn'd to have it thought that you On England did depend . UNTO your Kings you did adhere , Stood by the Royal Raze ; With them you Honour great did gain , And Paths of Glory trace ; With Royal STEWART at your Head All Enemies oppose , And like our brave Courageous Clans ; In Pieces cut your Foes . YOUR Kings did Justice then dispense , And led you on to Fight ; And your Heroic Valour was , Like their Example , bright . And happy People then you were , In plenty did abound , And your untainted Loyalty With Blessings great was crown'd . BUT Oh! Alas , the Case is chang'd , You'r wretched and forlorn ; The Hardships now impos'd on you By Slaves are only born : Your ancient Rights , which you so long Did with your Blood maintain , Are meanly sold and given up , And you dare scarce complain . JUSTICE now hath fled away , With Taxes you'r oppressed , And every little prattling Wretch M [ ? ] treely you molest . The choicest of your Noble Blood Are banish'd far away , And such as do remain at Home , Must truckle and obey . YOU'R Martial Spirit's quite decay'd , You'r poor contented Slaves , You'r kick'd and cuff'd , oppress'd , harrass'd , By Scoundrels , Fools and Knaves . You did against your King rebel , Abjur'd the Royal Raze : For which just Heaven did punish you , With Woes , Contempt , Disgrace . THIS Prince alone the Crown should wear And Royal Sceptre sway , To Him alone you should submit , And your Allegiance pay . A Prince indu'd with Virtues rare , So Warlike , Just and Great , That were it not to punish you , He'd have a better Fate . O CALEDON , Oh CALEDON , Look back from whence you fell , And from your Sufferings , learn your Gilded , And never more rebel ; Regain your ancient Liberties , Redeem your Rights and Laws , Restore your injur'd Lawful King ; Or perish in the Cause . YOUR Reputation thus you may , Thus only can retrieve , And till you Justice do to Him , You need not think to thrive . O may the Almighty King of Kings , His Sov'rain Power extend , And his Anointed's precious Life , From Perils all defend . O may just Heaven assert his Right , Him to his own Restore , And may the Scottish Nation shine , Illustrious as before . O Caledon , Oh Caledon , How joyful wou'd I be , To see the King upon the Throne , And you from Chains set free . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 71 ) And Excellent new SONG , To the Tune of , OLD LONG SYNE . O CALEDON , Oh CALEDON , How wretched is thy Fate I , thy St. ANDREW do lament , Thy poor abandon'd State . O Caledon , Oh Caledon , How griev'd am I to think ; That thy sad Story written is , With Blood instead of Ink. IN Days of Yore you was renown'd , Conspicuous was your FAME , All Nations did your Valour Praise , And Loyalty Proclaim ; You did your Ancient Rights maintain , And Liberties defend , And scorn'd to have it thought that you On England did depend . UNTO your Kings you did adhere , Stood by the Royal Raze ; With them you Honour great did gain , And Paths of Glory trace ; With Royal STEWART at your Head All Enemies oppose , And like our brave Courageous Clans ; In Pieces cut your Foes . YOUR Kings did Justice then dispense , And led you on to Fight ; And your Heroic Valour was , Like their Example , bright . And happy People then you were , In plenty did abound , And your untainted Loyalty With Blessings great was crown'd . BUT Oh! Alas , the Case is chang'd , You'r wretched and forlorn ; The Hardships now impos'd on you By Slaves are only born : Your ancient Rights , which you so long Did with your Blood maintain , Are meanly sold and given up , And you dare scarce complain . JUSTICE now hath fled away , With Taxes you'r oppressed , And every little prattling Wretch M [ ? ] treely you molest . The choicest of your Noble Blood Are banish'd far away , And such as do remain at Home , Must truckle and obey . YOU'R Martial Spirit's quite decay'd , You'r poor contented Slaves , You'r kick'd and cuff'd , oppress'd , harrass'd , By Scoundrels , Fools and Knaves . You did against your King rebel , Abjur'd the Royal Raze : For which just Heaven did punish you , With Woes , Contempt , Disgrace . THIS Prince alone the Crown should wear And Royal Sceptre sway , To Him alone you should submit , And your Allegiance pay . A Prince indu'd with Virtues rare , So Warlike , Just and Great , That were it not to punish you , He'd have a better Fate . O CALEDON , Oh CALEDON , Look back from whence you fell , And from your Sufferings , learn your Gilded , And never more rebel ; Regain your ancient Liberties , Redeem your Rights and Laws , Restore your injur'd Lawful King ; Or perish in the Cause . YOUR Reputation thus you may , Thus only can retrieve , And till you Justice do to Him , You need not think to thrive . O may the Almighty King of Kings , His Sov'rain Power extend , And his Anointed's precious Life , From Perils all defend . O may just Heaven assert his Right , Him to his own Restore , And may the Scottish Nation shine , Illustrious as before . O Caledon , Oh Caledon , How joyful wou'd I be , To see the King upon the Throne , And you from Chains set free . FINIS . 