C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 86 ) A RARE NEW SONG , Showing the Bravery of His Grace the Duke of Argile . To the Tune of the CAPING-TRADE . NOW , now comes on the glorious Year , Britain's Hope , and France's Fear ; Lewis the War has cost so dear , He slyly Peace does tender : But our Two Heroes so well know The Breach of his Word some Years ago , They Resolve to give him another Blow , Unless he Spain surrender . Come ! Here's a Health unto our QUEEN , To Malbrow the Great , and Brave Eugene , The Valiant Web too let's begin , Who late perform'd a Wonder . Then to the Ocean and Offering make , And boldly Carouse to Sir John Lake , Who , with Mortar and Cannon , Mahon did take , And made the Pope knock under . Beat up the Drum , a new Alarm , The Foes are Cold , but we are Warm ; Monsieur's Troops can do no Harm , Tho' they abound in Number . Push them once more and the Wars are done , Old Men and Boys will surely run ; And we can Beatrice them Four for One , Which they will still remember . Tournay and Mons , these Famous Towns , Were forc'd to submit , when our Troops lay down , And the Armies of France lay looking on , And that is no great Wonder . For to the Woods their Forces fly Like Foxes in Holes , they in their Trenches lie When Malbrow the Great , and Brave Eugene draw nigh , Those Warlike Men of Thunder . The Trumpet sounds , and the Fight's begun , The Noble Argile thro' the Woods leads on ; Come , bonny Lads , let's gar them run , Their Trenches sha'n't defend them . He open'd his Breast and show'd to all , He nothing had on to keep off a Ball , With a Huzza ! they then fell on , One and all , And to the Dev'l he sent them . Now the Campaign is drawing near , France New Proposals of Peace , we hear , Do make ; for they greatly do fear Our General Commanders . Once more a Health unto our QUEEN To Malbrow the Great , and Brave Eugene ; The Gallant Argile too let's bring in , Who Beatrice the French in Flanders . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 86 ) A RARE NEW SONG , Showing the Bravery of His Grace the Duke of Argile . To the Tune of the CAPING-TRADE . NOW , now comes on the glorious Year , Britain's Hope , and France's Fear ; Lewis the War has cost so dear , He slyly Peace does tender : But our Two Heroes so well know The Breach of his Word some Years ago , They Resolve to give him another Blow , Unless he Spain surrender . Come ! Here's a Health unto our QUEEN , To Malbrow the Great , and Brave Eugene , The Valiant Web too let's begin , Who late perform'd a Wonder . Then to the Ocean and Offering make , And boldly Carouse to Sir John Lake , Who , with Mortar and Cannon , Mahon did take , And made the Pope knock under . Beat up the Drum , a new Alarm , The Foes are Cold , but we are Warm ; Monsieur's Troops can do no Harm , Tho' they abound in Number . Push them once more and the Wars are done , Old Men and Boys will surely run ; And we can Beatrice them Four for One , Which they will still remember . Tournay and Mons , these Famous Towns , Were forc'd to submit , when our Troops lay down , And the Armies of France lay looking on , And that is no great Wonder . For to the Woods their Forces fly Like Foxes in Holes , they in their Trenches lie When Malbrow the Great , and Brave Eugene draw nigh , Those Warlike Men of Thunder . The Trumpet sounds , and the Fight's begun , The Noble Argile thro' the Woods leads on ; Come , bonny Lads , let's gar them run , Their Trenches sha'n't defend them . He open'd his Breast and show'd to all , He nothing had on to keep off a Ball , With a Huzza ! they then fell on , One and all , And to the Dev'l he sent them . Now the Campaign is drawing near , France New Proposals of Peace , we hear , Do make ; for they greatly do fear Our General Commanders . Once more a Health unto our QUEEN To Malbrow the Great , and Brave Eugene ; The Gallant Argile too let's bring in , Who Beatrice the French in Flanders . FINIS . 