C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 84 ) Britains Rejoicing at the Coronation of his Royal Majesty King George , To the Tune of my Nanny O WHAT blessed Legacy was this , That Royal William left us Sir , Of which the Jacks and Jesuits . had very near bereft us , Sir . Who o're their Pots contrived Plots ; for Popish Restoration , To Frustrate Britain of her hope's , of this blessed Coronation . How blessed the change kind Heaven has made instead of this Pretender , Sir , To grant us the best King on Earth , to be our Faiths Defender Si ; A Prince of wondrous Peity , True Zeal and Moderation , Affords us ground to bless the Day , we saw this Coronation . No Revelings about the Court . Night Converse nor Night Balling , Sir , Ere Ten o'clock he Court is Huss'd . and early in the Dawing , Sir , This pious prince gets up by times , by Devot Adoration . He early ply's the Throne of Grace , for blessings on the Nation , His Council meets at timely Hours , and all is done in order , Sir , Not late at Night , as some times has , been done when much disorder , Sir , And Vice was practised near the Court , to frustrate our intention , But thanks to Heaven the Guise is Chang'd by this blessed Coronation , That Land is blessed says Sollomon , whose Princes in the morning , Sir , Dispatch Affairs and timely cut . things in themselves adorning , Sir , To any Man of low Degree . much more in a high Station , They Suit the Charactor of Kings and by this Coronation . No Chambering or Wantonness . Profanity or Swearing , Sir , He does permit about the Court , a left within his hearing Sir , And if He thereof Notice get . by any sure Relatien , He such ! Afronts and them Discourts Oh Blessed Coronation . Which blesses us with such a King , that every Vice abhorreth Sir ; And to his Subject's every one , their propor Right Secureth Sir , His Native Subject's whom he left make bitter Lamentation For the Great loss they have Sastained ; by this blessed Coronation . A Prince of Wisdom most profound and all Divine Endevements Sir Unshaken steadfastness for Truth even Equal worser by few Saints Sir His Hero Magnanimity to promote Reformation Pretends unto us happy Days by the blessed Coronation . When he who has the Grace and Wit , to stand out Faiths Defender Sir Thus vasted with increase of Grace shall punish each offender Sir Condingly for their Naughty Deeds and made a due Progation Of Vicious Persons from the Court Who hate his Coronation . Like Godly David in his Eyet Vile Persons are Despised Sir But Faithful Upright Honest Men , are by him highly Prized Sir Iil from him Receive contempt and good have a Probation And late Posterity shall bless this happy Coronation . FINIS , C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 84 ) Britains Rejoicing at the Coronation of his Royal Majesty King George , To the Tune of my Nanny O WHAT blessed Legacy was this , That Royal William left us Sir , Of which the Jacks and Jesuits . had very near bereft us , Sir . Who o're their Pots contrived Plots ; for Popish Restoration , To Frustrate Britain of her hope's , of this blessed Coronation . How blessed the change kind Heaven has made instead of this Pretender , Sir , To grant us the best King on Earth , to be our Faiths Defender Si ; A Prince of wondrous Peity , True Zeal and Moderation , Affords us ground to bless the Day , we saw this Coronation . No Revelings about the Court . Night Converse nor Night Balling , Sir , Ere Ten o'clock he Court is Huss'd . and early in the Dawing , Sir , This pious prince gets up by times , by Devot Adoration . He early ply's the Throne of Grace , for blessings on the Nation , His Council meets at timely Hours , and all is done in order , Sir , Not late at Night , as some times has , been done when much disorder , Sir , And Vice was practised near the Court , to frustrate our intention , But thanks to Heaven the Guise is Chang'd by this blessed Coronation , That Land is blessed says Sollomon , whose Princes in the morning , Sir , Dispatch Affairs and timely cut . things in themselves adorning , Sir , To any Man of low Degree . much more in a high Station , They Suit the Charactor of Kings and by this Coronation . No Chambering or Wantonness . Profanity or Swearing , Sir , He does permit about the Court , a left within his hearing Sir , And if He thereof Notice get . by any sure Relatien , He such ! Afronts and them Discourts Oh Blessed Coronation . Which blesses us with such a King , that every Vice abhorreth Sir ; And to his Subject's every one , their propor Right Secureth Sir , His Native Subject's whom he left make bitter Lamentation For the Great loss they have Sastained ; by this blessed Coronation . A Prince of Wisdom most profound and all Divine Endevements Sir Unshaken steadfastness for Truth even Equal worser by few Saints Sir His Hero Magnanimity to promote Reformation Pretends unto us happy Days by the blessed Coronation . When he who has the Grace and Wit , to stand out Faiths Defender Sir Thus vasted with increase of Grace shall punish each offender Sir Condingly for their Naughty Deeds and made a due Progation Of Vicious Persons from the Court Who hate his Coronation . Like Godly David in his Eyet Vile Persons are Despised Sir But Faithful Upright Honest Men , are by him highly Prized Sir Iil from him Receive contempt and good have a Probation And late Posterity shall bless this happy Coronation . FINIS , 