C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 79 ) THE MEAL MONGERS GARLAND Containing two excellent new SONGS Part 1st . The Meal Mongers intrigues and Resolutions . Par 2d , The Buyers Answer , To the Tune of , The Meal was dear short-sine . The First Part. COme Willie I'll tell you the News and they are very good , The Frost has hindered the blows And all the Poor wants Food , How much Meal hae you ? And where will you gang we'd ? We will not yet supply , Till they be almost Dead , Will you be rul'd by me , And I will led the way , And we will send to see , On every Merkat day . What rates each Market bears , For fear the Price should fallen And the Markets we will forestall . In every Market Town , Our orderly Man shall stand And raise the peck to a Crown , So we'll get all free Land , With Masks and Fans and Gloves , Our Daughters shall be bram , Our Lads shall Court their Loves With Whips and Spurs and a. In Heads so finely dressed With Ribbons our Wives shall flee , And we among the rest Will Swagger like who but we . We'll a buy famous Hats With boots and spurs and Wigg Housings and Hulster caps , Oh woo but we'll look big . And we'll hae pistols too In ye'll believe my Word , Then what will the Country do When each of us get's a Sword And each a box of Snuff The best and not the worst , Oh then ! how we will huff ! We'll a be finely Horst . The best Cloth can be had We'll all buy for our Clothes , Then all that can be said There rides the Oatmeal beaus And we'll buy lusty purses To hold our ill got gain , And a Bag for to hold all the Curses And then we will swagger amain .. What dill man art thou mad ? Or have you lost your sense ? Where's all the wit you had ? Ye'd better hoard up your pence : For this time will not hold The price o' the meil will fallen , Alas ! it is no jest , Ah , that's the Devil and all . Make Porrige and Sowens but thin , And tell the lads this Year , The eating of much , is a since , For Corn and meal is dear , Tell them that many Poor Men Eat Herbs and drink clear Water Sav't from the Servants if you can But the poor shall be little better . We'll a hoard up the meil As long as ever we can What ever we have conceal'd Confess it to never a Man , Till all of them Cringe and bow And cry dear Sir we want A bushel of meil for a Cow , Oh then ! brave Boys we'll rant . Take care my dearest honey Take care of money ill got . Pish , Woman , if I get the Money I valve not Conscience a Butten ; Let all the poor folk Curse And all the Curses fallen , If I get a ponderous purse , I care not a fig for them all . I'll raise my family , And none shall me control , And when I come to Die , If I have lost my Soul , For giving so little a Peck , And taking so much gain , I'll tie my self into my sack And in Hell it will keep out the Flames . The Second PART Containing the Buyers Answer , To the Tune of , Death and the Lady . FIre Brands of Satan are you then resolv'd To live and die where you are now involv'd Under the Curse of him that is most high , Who hears the poor when they to him do cry . Think you your Sack shall keep away his wrath Or yet your Money when you yield your Breath : And will you give your Souls eternally , For Earthly rotten wasting Vanity ? What is your Gold you by Extortion get , Or what your Silver , will it make you great ? Goods by extortion god will soon decrease And blast at once all that you do possess . Cursed are you who do the Corn withhold , And blessed is he that Corn and Meal hath sold , To serve the poor with righteous lawful gain , His Substance shall with him and his remain . But you that hoard up meal till it be rotten , And buries it where it must be forgotten When it's in crawling Worms and read and blue , Heavens direful Curse will surely fallen on you . Wretch can thou hear thy brother cry ( I want ) And thou have plenty and the poor man scant ? And wilt thou take his Coat and Shirt away , For as much food as saves his life one day ? Sure if thou dost , thou'st made a league with Hell And haste struck hands with Belzebub to dwell , This is thy fate , thou can't expect another , That sets thy self to starve thy Christian Brother . Thou cannot eat thy own food with content , And what thy Servants gets thou thinks ill spent If thou could get thy barn fil'd full of Oar , For one small peck of Meal thou would have more . Ask all men in the Earth if they can tell Of one that e'er grew rich with selling Meal , I mean a Man that took unlawful gains And if his Riches with his Seed remains . The wealthy Glutton would not Lazarus feed , But let him starve and die for want of Bred . And yet the Glutton die as well as he And is convey'd to endless misery . While Richer Lazarus Alleluja's sings In Ab'rams bosom to the King of Kings , Think on this man , all you that starve the poor , The Gluttons Portion's yours you may be sure . the that the needy doe for Silver Fell , And for a pair of shoes the Poor , ( mark well ) That make the Epha small the Shekel great And fell the base refuse of all your Wheat . We fear you not , keep't as closs up's you can We'll trust to heaven , we're sure he can command Food for to fallen where Corn never grew . And we can live by Faith , so cannot you . For we believe and we are sure 'tis true , We'll have a seed time and a harvest too Then be you sure the price of meal will fallen And that will strick you to the very gall . So then the day that's yours he'll quickly turn When we shall laugh , then you shall howl and mourn For he that set you up on high will then , turn o'er the scale and cast you down again . And after that thou never more shall rise For all the Devil and thou can e'er devise , This day is posting , it is passed thy noon Thou shalt be cropped and lobt and so cut down . the base Extortioners think how ye'll dwell , In burning flames in everlasting Hell , Take warning then , and feed the poor at last And heaven perhaps will pardon what is passed . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 79 ) THE MEAL MONGERS GARLAND Containing two excellent new SONGS Part 1st . The Meal Mongers intrigues and Resolutions . Par 2d , The Buyers Answer , To the Tune of , The Meal was dear short-sine . The First Part. COme Willie I'll tell you the News and they are very good , The Frost has hindered the blows And all the Poor wants Food , How much Meal hae you ? And where will you gang we'd ? We will not yet supply , Till they be almost Dead , Will you be rul'd by me , And I will led the way , And we will send to see , On every Merkat day . What rates each Market bears , For fear the Price should fallen And the Markets we will forestall . In every Market Town , Our orderly Man shall stand And raise the peck to a Crown , So we'll get all free Land , With Masks and Fans and Gloves , Our Daughters shall be bram , Our Lads shall Court their Loves With Whips and Spurs and a. In Heads so finely dressed With Ribbons our Wives shall flee , And we among the rest Will Swagger like who but we . We'll a buy famous Hats With boots and spurs and Wigg Housings and Hulster caps , Oh woo but we'll look big . And we'll hae pistols too In ye'll believe my Word , Then what will the Country do When each of us get's a Sword And each a box of Snuff The best and not the worst , Oh then ! how we will huff ! We'll a be finely Horst . The best Cloth can be had We'll all buy for our Clothes , Then all that can be said There rides the Oatmeal beaus And we'll buy lusty purses To hold our ill got gain , And a Bag for to hold all the Curses And then we will swagger amain .. What dill man art thou mad ? Or have you lost your sense ? Where's all the wit you had ? Ye'd better hoard up your pence : For this time will not hold The price o' the meil will fallen , Alas ! it is no jest , Ah , that's the Devil and all . Make Porrige and Sowens but thin , And tell the lads this Year , The eating of much , is a since , For Corn and meal is dear , Tell them that many Poor Men Eat Herbs and drink clear Water Sav't from the Servants if you can But the poor shall be little better . We'll a hoard up the meil As long as ever we can What ever we have conceal'd Confess it to never a Man , Till all of them Cringe and bow And cry dear Sir we want A bushel of meil for a Cow , Oh then ! brave Boys we'll rant . Take care my dearest honey Take care of money ill got . Pish , Woman , if I get the Money I valve not Conscience a Butten ; Let all the poor folk Curse And all the Curses fallen , If I get a ponderous purse , I care not a fig for them all . I'll raise my family , And none shall me control , And when I come to Die , If I have lost my Soul , For giving so little a Peck , And taking so much gain , I'll tie my self into my sack And in Hell it will keep out the Flames . The Second PART Containing the Buyers Answer , To the Tune of , Death and the Lady . FIre Brands of Satan are you then resolv'd To live and die where you are now involv'd Under the Curse of him that is most high , Who hears the poor when they to him do cry . Think you your Sack shall keep away his wrath Or yet your Money when you yield your Breath : And will you give your Souls eternally , For Earthly rotten wasting Vanity ? What is your Gold you by Extortion get , Or what your Silver , will it make you great ? Goods by extortion god will soon decrease And blast at once all that you do possess . Cursed are you who do the Corn withhold , And blessed is he that Corn and Meal hath sold , To serve the poor with righteous lawful gain , His Substance shall with him and his remain . But you that hoard up meal till it be rotten , And buries it where it must be forgotten When it's in crawling Worms and read and blue , Heavens direful Curse will surely fallen on you . Wretch can thou hear thy brother cry ( I want ) And thou have plenty and the poor man scant ? And wilt thou take his Coat and Shirt away , For as much food as saves his life one day ? Sure if thou dost , thou'st made a league with Hell And haste struck hands with Belzebub to dwell , This is thy fate , thou can't expect another , That sets thy self to starve thy Christian Brother . Thou cannot eat thy own food with content , And what thy Servants gets thou thinks ill spent If thou could get thy barn fil'd full of Oar , For one small peck of Meal thou would have more . Ask all men in the Earth if they can tell Of one that e'er grew rich with selling Meal , I mean a Man that took unlawful gains And if his Riches with his Seed remains . The wealthy Glutton would not Lazarus feed , But let him starve and die for want of Bred . And yet the Glutton die as well as he And is convey'd to endless misery . While Richer Lazarus Alleluja's sings In Ab'rams bosom to the King of Kings , Think on this man , all you that starve the poor , The Gluttons Portion's yours you may be sure . the that the needy doe for Silver Fell , And for a pair of shoes the Poor , ( mark well ) That make the Epha small the Shekel great And fell the base refuse of all your Wheat . We fear you not , keep't as closs up's you can We'll trust to heaven , we're sure he can command Food for to fallen where Corn never grew . And we can live by Faith , so cannot you . For we believe and we are sure 'tis true , We'll have a seed time and a harvest too Then be you sure the price of meal will fallen And that will strick you to the very gall . So then the day that's yours he'll quickly turn When we shall laugh , then you shall howl and mourn For he that set you up on high will then , turn o'er the scale and cast you down again . And after that thou never more shall rise For all the Devil and thou can e'er devise , This day is posting , it is passed thy noon Thou shalt be cropped and lobt and so cut down . the base Extortioners think how ye'll dwell , In burning flames in everlasting Hell , Take warning then , and feed the poor at last And heaven perhaps will pardon what is passed . FINIS . 