C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 96 ) SUTHERLAND'S Lament , for the loss of his Post . WITH HIS Advice to John Daglees his Successor . I Think Auld Reikie's now grown Daft , To change my Lord Provo so aft , For ae poor shot o' wrang cad Waft , They've Banish'r me : I was the Deacon o' my Craft , And boor the Gree. For when the Throng I marched thro' Wi' a bair Breast just like a Beaw , All ran to see my Lord Provo , And did Admire : But with a bair Back now I go , To get my Hire When ance I Whipped Nannie Fender , To let them see I was nam tender , Many a lusty Lick I lend her , On her bair Back . Till a the Folk cry'd out he'l end her , At ilk a Whake . But Peas for Beans Oh Dool ! O Dool ! I'm Whipped now at my aun School , E'r I were lade Just like a Fool , Thro' a the Town ! I'd fit Ten Sundays on the Stool , And wear the Gown . Now if this Fashion come to Town , To Wheep ilk ane that plays the Lown , Wi' any Man I'l lay a Crown , I'm sure he'l Los't . They'l bring some English Artist down , To get the Post . At last I judg'd a Wife my fell , And wheep't her where she would na tell , Till in came the Good Man him fell , Made ilka Stroke , Ring louder than the Common Bell , E'r Nine a Clock . And just like a Poor silly Soat , I've lost my Labour and my Coat , They might as well a Cut my throat , 'Twas Henrys Death , Poor Man he was no worth a Groat , At his last Breath My Credits gone and nothing for't , But Forty pound and a bass Mort , As Common as the Comgate Port , Or Leith stage Coach , I've play'd my self a bonny Sport , Oh sad Reproach The WORSER --- l has made me now as poor , As Job , and just like a bair Moor Left Nothing : But a Common-Whoor To me behind . She'l be my Death , I'm very sure ; And that ye'l find Now take my Council John Dalgeess , Ne're Spare them tho' your Loof they Grees Bring off the Skin Just like a flees , At ilk tossed , For if you Chance to miss a Leish , Ye'l lost your Post , Wee'r Billies let us Never quarll , you have my Post lend me your Barll , I'le win ten Shillings and a far'll , Ilkatweek , Er Long I will have ten Pound Starll , In ilk Breike . Let's make a Barter , what's the Matter ? Drink you good Ale , I man Drink Water , But if you chance to prove a Fater , Aff go you ; May they treat ilk Furnicator As they've done me . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 96 ) SUTHERLAND'S Lament , for the loss of his Post . WITH HIS Advice to John Daglees his Successor . I Think Auld Reikie's now grown Daft , To change my Lord Provo so aft , For ae poor shot o' wrang cad Waft , They've Banish'r me : I was the Deacon o' my Craft , And boor the Gree. For when the Throng I marched thro' Wi' a bair Breast just like a Beaw , All ran to see my Lord Provo , And did Admire : But with a bair Back now I go , To get my Hire When ance I Whipped Nannie Fender , To let them see I was nam tender , Many a lusty Lick I lend her , On her bair Back . Till a the Folk cry'd out he'l end her , At ilk a Whake . But Peas for Beans Oh Dool ! O Dool ! I'm Whipped now at my aun School , E'r I were lade Just like a Fool , Thro' a the Town ! I'd fit Ten Sundays on the Stool , And wear the Gown . Now if this Fashion come to Town , To Wheep ilk ane that plays the Lown , Wi' any Man I'l lay a Crown , I'm sure he'l Los't . They'l bring some English Artist down , To get the Post . At last I judg'd a Wife my fell , And wheep't her where she would na tell , Till in came the Good Man him fell , Made ilka Stroke , Ring louder than the Common Bell , E'r Nine a Clock . And just like a Poor silly Soat , I've lost my Labour and my Coat , They might as well a Cut my throat , 'Twas Henrys Death , Poor Man he was no worth a Groat , At his last Breath My Credits gone and nothing for't , But Forty pound and a bass Mort , As Common as the Comgate Port , Or Leith stage Coach , I've play'd my self a bonny Sport , Oh sad Reproach The WORSER --- l has made me now as poor , As Job , and just like a bair Moor Left Nothing : But a Common-Whoor To me behind . She'l be my Death , I'm very sure ; And that ye'l find Now take my Council John Dalgeess , Ne're Spare them tho' your Loof they Grees Bring off the Skin Just like a flees , At ilk tossed , For if you Chance to miss a Leish , Ye'l lost your Post , Wee'r Billies let us Never quarll , you have my Post lend me your Barll , I'le win ten Shillings and a far'll , Ilkatweek , Er Long I will have ten Pound Starll , In ilk Breike . Let's make a Barter , what's the Matter ? Drink you good Ale , I man Drink Water , But if you chance to prove a Fater , Aff go you ; May they treat ilk Furnicator As they've done me . 