C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 88 ) A POEM Upon the most potent Prince James WORSER [ uk ] e of Hamilton ; anent the Union , of Great Britain . ALL You Brave Noble Men , give Ear , A Declaration You shall hear , Of a Brave Noble Man of Fame , His Style it is Duke Hamiltone . For He's a Man well Lov'd with GOD , And still He's for a firm Abided . I hope in Heav'n His Soul shall Rest , And be His Dwelling Place at last . I think there's none that knows this Man , But I am sure will wish the same , For it is true , He is well Lov'd , I need go not Far for to prove't . GOD Prosper Him long in this Land , And Bless them who're at His Command , But them who would not Him Obey , They are not Wise , I dare well say . For He's a Man that knows the Right , And Execute's with all His Might , Although that others do not so , We know His Vote is with other two . For 'tis great Honour unto Him , For to stand True to his Nation , And this He does I am right sure , His Good Works doe good Witness bear . The LORD Bless Brave Duke Hamiltoun , For He's a Man of great Renown . And has been Born for Scotlands Good , And under GOD He is their Head. For He's the Head of this Nation Except Queen ANN that now does Riegn , Therefore Good People Sing and say , GOD send Him great Prosperity . I've herd it said both far and near , In Scotland He's the highest Peer , And yet He is as Humble a Man. As Mortal Flesh before can stand . I hope that I shall hear it so , That through the Nation it shall go , His Worthy Wit for to be known Though He be neither KING nor QUEEN I would that I might see it true . Then Scotland would not need to Rue , Nor would they be in such a Fear , But Bless the Womb that did Him Bear , Your Dukes , your Earls , your Lords , your Lairds , I'l speak nothing to their dispraise , But among them all there is not one . Like the worthy Duke of Hamilton : Now the Grace of GOD to be his Guide , And to surround him one every side Good wishers all will say Amen , And pray long let this Hero Reign . Now all the people up and down , Will sing this with a merry Tune , And for my self where ever I go . I'le sing this Song for ought I know . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 88 ) A POEM Upon the most potent Prince James WORSER [ uk ] e of Hamilton ; anent the Union , of Great Britain . ALL You Brave Noble Men , give Ear , A Declaration You shall hear , Of a Brave Noble Man of Fame , His Style it is Duke Hamiltone . For He's a Man well Lov'd with GOD , And still He's for a firm Abided . I hope in Heav'n His Soul shall Rest , And be His Dwelling Place at last . I think there's none that knows this Man , But I am sure will wish the same , For it is true , He is well Lov'd , I need go not Far for to prove't . GOD Prosper Him long in this Land , And Bless them who're at His Command , But them who would not Him Obey , They are not Wise , I dare well say . For He's a Man that knows the Right , And Execute's with all His Might , Although that others do not so , We know His Vote is with other two . For 'tis great Honour unto Him , For to stand True to his Nation , And this He does I am right sure , His Good Works doe good Witness bear . The LORD Bless Brave Duke Hamiltoun , For He's a Man of great Renown . And has been Born for Scotlands Good , And under GOD He is their Head. For He's the Head of this Nation Except Queen ANN that now does Riegn , Therefore Good People Sing and say , GOD send Him great Prosperity . I've herd it said both far and near , In Scotland He's the highest Peer , And yet He is as Humble a Man. As Mortal Flesh before can stand . I hope that I shall hear it so , That through the Nation it shall go , His Worthy Wit for to be known Though He be neither KING nor QUEEN I would that I might see it true . Then Scotland would not need to Rue , Nor would they be in such a Fear , But Bless the Womb that did Him Bear , Your Dukes , your Earls , your Lords , your Lairds , I'l speak nothing to their dispraise , But among them all there is not one . Like the worthy Duke of Hamilton : Now the Grace of GOD to be his Guide , And to surround him one every side Good wishers all will say Amen , And pray long let this Hero Reign . Now all the people up and down , Will sing this with a merry Tune , And for my self where ever I go . I'le sing this Song for ought I know . 