C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 89 ) The New way , OF THE Bonny Highland Laddie . To it's own Proper Tune etc I Crossed Forth , I crossed Tay , I left Dundee , and Edinborrow , I saw nothing there worth my Stay , and so I bade them all Good-morrrow . O my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , Oh my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , When I am sick and like to die , Thou'lt row me in thy Highland Pladie . For on the Cairnamount I spy'd , in careless Dress a Highland Laddie , Who briskly said were't thou my Bride , I drew thee in my Highland Pladie , Oh my bonny , bonny , etc No Butter-Box he seem'd to be , no English-Fop , no Lowland Laddie , But by his mein he was well known , to be some Genty Highland Laddie . O my bonny , bonny , etc His Quiver hang down by his Thigh , his Mein did show his Bow was ready , A thousand Darts flew from his Eye , and all fell down before his Lady . O my bonny , bonny , etc It's Silken Rooms and Pearled Beds , and laced Shoes fit for a Lady ; But he can do't as wantonly , in Highland Trews and belted Plade Oh my bonny , bonny , etc , I will have no Commander Man , Captain , Col'nel , nor a Caddie , If all my Friends had sworn and said , I'll have none but a Highland Laddie . O my bonny , bonny . etc But when we came to Stirling Town , he promis'd to make me a Lady , But all the Tocher that I god , he row'd me in his Highland Pladie . O my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , Oh my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , When I am sick and like to die , He'll row me in his Highland Plaidie . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 89 ) The New way , OF THE Bonny Highland Laddie . To it's own Proper Tune etc I Crossed Forth , I crossed Tay , I left Dundee , and Edinborrow , I saw nothing there worth my Stay , and so I bade them all Good-morrrow . O my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , Oh my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , When I am sick and like to die , Thou'lt row me in thy Highland Pladie . For on the Cairnamount I spy'd , in careless Dress a Highland Laddie , Who briskly said were't thou my Bride , I drew thee in my Highland Pladie , Oh my bonny , bonny , etc No Butter-Box he seem'd to be , no English-Fop , no Lowland Laddie , But by his mein he was well known , to be some Genty Highland Laddie . O my bonny , bonny , etc His Quiver hang down by his Thigh , his Mein did show his Bow was ready , A thousand Darts flew from his Eye , and all fell down before his Lady . O my bonny , bonny , etc It's Silken Rooms and Pearled Beds , and laced Shoes fit for a Lady ; But he can do't as wantonly , in Highland Trews and belted Plade Oh my bonny , bonny , etc , I will have no Commander Man , Captain , Col'nel , nor a Caddie , If all my Friends had sworn and said , I'll have none but a Highland Laddie . O my bonny , bonny . etc But when we came to Stirling Town , he promis'd to make me a Lady , But all the Tocher that I god , he row'd me in his Highland Pladie . O my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , Oh my bonny , bonny Highland Laddie , When I am sick and like to die , He'll row me in his Highland Plaidie . FINIS . 