C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 92 ) The Forger's Doom : OR , John Currie's last Speech . I Find I was a Fool to mock the Laws ; My Notes are finely chang'd for Hangie's Taas ; I thought to've turn'd them all to ready Cash ; But now I'm paid for every Pound a Lash . Is this the Way to clear me o'er the Nail , To drive it thro' my Ears , and lash me down the Tail ; Scurvy prompt Payment ; fie upon such Clerks , Instead of Sterling Coin , to pay with good broad Marks ; Throne Weight , i' faith , and that my Back will feel ; They'l forge my Flesh , and there engrave their Seal . The LAW of old , ingrav'n was on Stones ; But now it is ingrav'n on Flesh and Bones ; I thought that Rome and W ----- s were not akin , But here's a Popish Penance for my since , To save my Soul , they'l mortify my Skin : That cruel Bank , Oh how was I beguil'd ? Their Note was lawful , mine a Bastard Child , In shape and Features , and in Sense the same , How then can their's be straight , and mine be lame ? Since they so much resemble one another , Why should not mine be honour'd as a Brother ? Once I believ'd 'twas Policy and Sense , To draw a daily Bill on David Spence . After a twelve Months Plea , I'll ne'er forget , Sharp was the Way he's ta'en to pay the Debt , Naked turn'd me to dance upon the Street ; And yet they say , That Falsehood hasn't Feet . Cursed be the Man invented knacks of Law , A base Bugbear , to keep the World in Awe ; Of all it's Tricks , with which the World is curs'd , Conjunct Probations , surely is the worst . Why may not I , Bookbinder to my Trade , Forge Paper as a Smith may forge a Spade ? Thanks to my Stars , I have a Pair of Hands , Can forge Bills faster , than the Smith's forge Bans ; Some forge a Lie , and others forge and Oath ; And yet the Law does overlook them both . Is not this partial in a high Degree , To punish none , save dextrous Men like me . O is there not some blessed foreign Climb , Where Forg'ry yet was never made a Crime ? I'll travel there , and carry on the Prank , Till all the Earth become John Currie's Bank . Farewell , dear Friends , you'l shortly hear frae me And send my Compliments beyond the Sea. That you may drink their Health who send me from a Tree . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 92 ) The Forger's Doom : OR , John Currie's last Speech . I Find I was a Fool to mock the Laws ; My Notes are finely chang'd for Hangie's Taas ; I thought to've turn'd them all to ready Cash ; But now I'm paid for every Pound a Lash . Is this the Way to clear me o'er the Nail , To drive it thro' my Ears , and lash me down the Tail ; Scurvy prompt Payment ; fie upon such Clerks , Instead of Sterling Coin , to pay with good broad Marks ; Throne Weight , i' faith , and that my Back will feel ; They'l forge my Flesh , and there engrave their Seal . The LAW of old , ingrav'n was on Stones ; But now it is ingrav'n on Flesh and Bones ; I thought that Rome and W ----- s were not akin , But here's a Popish Penance for my since , To save my Soul , they'l mortify my Skin : That cruel Bank , Oh how was I beguil'd ? Their Note was lawful , mine a Bastard Child , In shape and Features , and in Sense the same , How then can their's be straight , and mine be lame ? Since they so much resemble one another , Why should not mine be honour'd as a Brother ? Once I believ'd 'twas Policy and Sense , To draw a daily Bill on David Spence . After a twelve Months Plea , I'll ne'er forget , Sharp was the Way he's ta'en to pay the Debt , Naked turn'd me to dance upon the Street ; And yet they say , That Falsehood hasn't Feet . Cursed be the Man invented knacks of Law , A base Bugbear , to keep the World in Awe ; Of all it's Tricks , with which the World is curs'd , Conjunct Probations , surely is the worst . Why may not I , Bookbinder to my Trade , Forge Paper as a Smith may forge a Spade ? Thanks to my Stars , I have a Pair of Hands , Can forge Bills faster , than the Smith's forge Bans ; Some forge a Lie , and others forge and Oath ; And yet the Law does overlook them both . Is not this partial in a high Degree , To punish none , save dextrous Men like me . O is there not some blessed foreign Climb , Where Forg'ry yet was never made a Crime ? I'll travel there , and carry on the Prank , Till all the Earth become John Currie's Bank . Farewell , dear Friends , you'l shortly hear frae me And send my Compliments beyond the Sea. That you may drink their Health who send me from a Tree . 