C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 93 ) The Speech OF John Curry , To be delivered on the Tron 10th Apr. 1728. 1 Although my Lug's nail'd , to the Tron , Yet I am not Tongue tacked John ; I'l speak , tho' all the Bank look on , And call me Rogue ; I have not been and idle dron , But Clever dog . 2 In Manufactring ev'ry Noat , I did lay down , this Solid plot , For to grow grea and I have god , what I design'd My Servant , with a Livery Coat , Who walks behind 3 Surrounded , by my body Guards , I'm far above , the rank of Lairds , Beter forge Bills , than play at Cards , or yet at dice You see , the Law gives fine rewards , To actions nice 4 Before my noble parts were known ; I walk'd demurely all alone , And no Man said , how do you John , upon the Street ; But now , ther's hundreds Looking on , my Fame's complete . 5 The times are very bad , you know The want of Cash keeps people low , Folk every day to th' Abbay go , weep for their loss ; But at midday , my face I show , from Tron to Cross . 6 But I must Forriegn Country's see , ( The Goverment's been kind to me , ) For this poor soil , does not agree , with my big Heart , I'l Travel far until I be , Complete in art . 7 Knock down , that Scoundrel rogue does jeer , Says , I stand like a poinded Mare , And that I dare not for my ear , Stir from this place ; And that no greatness does appear , But deep disgrace 8 It's only Rogues , that run away , But Men like me , dare firmly Stay , Here I can talk , in good broad Day , I think that's right , The Nail does fix my head , I say , that's realy Light . 9 Bad weather so hath spoil'd the road , It's seldom that I come abroad , For only twice , this Month I trod , To take the air ; And the last time , tho' cold , that's odd my body bore . 10 Sirs tell me did you ever see ? A better temper'd Man than me My page hath ty'd me , to this tree , By way of sport ; And I get all the taunts but he , Gets money for't . 11 Wednesday last he did begin , The play , and now his Hands goat in For to chastise me , for my since , With taes right teugh And yet the more he lash'd , my Skin : The more I leugh 12 And the Diversion's very bonny , Put hand in purse , and Lug out Money , For you have lost , your Player Tonny , He's boughted now And I am sent , his faithful Cronny , To act to you . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 93 ) The Speech OF John Curry , To be delivered on the Tron 10th Apr. 1728. 1 Although my Lug's nail'd , to the Tron , Yet I am not Tongue tacked John ; I'l speak , tho' all the Bank look on , And call me Rogue ; I have not been and idle dron , But Clever dog . 2 In Manufactring ev'ry Noat , I did lay down , this Solid plot , For to grow grea and I have god , what I design'd My Servant , with a Livery Coat , Who walks behind 3 Surrounded , by my body Guards , I'm far above , the rank of Lairds , Beter forge Bills , than play at Cards , or yet at dice You see , the Law gives fine rewards , To actions nice 4 Before my noble parts were known ; I walk'd demurely all alone , And no Man said , how do you John , upon the Street ; But now , ther's hundreds Looking on , my Fame's complete . 5 The times are very bad , you know The want of Cash keeps people low , Folk every day to th' Abbay go , weep for their loss ; But at midday , my face I show , from Tron to Cross . 6 But I must Forriegn Country's see , ( The Goverment's been kind to me , ) For this poor soil , does not agree , with my big Heart , I'l Travel far until I be , Complete in art . 7 Knock down , that Scoundrel rogue does jeer , Says , I stand like a poinded Mare , And that I dare not for my ear , Stir from this place ; And that no greatness does appear , But deep disgrace 8 It's only Rogues , that run away , But Men like me , dare firmly Stay , Here I can talk , in good broad Day , I think that's right , The Nail does fix my head , I say , that's realy Light . 9 Bad weather so hath spoil'd the road , It's seldom that I come abroad , For only twice , this Month I trod , To take the air ; And the last time , tho' cold , that's odd my body bore . 10 Sirs tell me did you ever see ? A better temper'd Man than me My page hath ty'd me , to this tree , By way of sport ; And I get all the taunts but he , Gets money for't . 11 Wednesday last he did begin , The play , and now his Hands goat in For to chastise me , for my since , With taes right teugh And yet the more he lash'd , my Skin : The more I leugh 12 And the Diversion's very bonny , Put hand in purse , and Lug out Money , For you have lost , your Player Tonny , He's boughted now And I am sent , his faithful Cronny , To act to you . FINIS . 