C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 97 ) PANEGYRICK On Robert Cowan's Trip to the Tron , who should have been ex - posed there , with his Ditty on his Breast , Wednesday 22d , January 1724 , by Sentence of the Senators of the College of Justice , for defrauding his Creditors of vast Sums . Ad pulchrem est digito , monstrare & dicitur hic est . WHat Moonshine or Trade-wind hath blown thee here , Loadstone of Trade , why did the Skipper Steer Thy Vessel for to Harbour at this Tree , And sailing down our Coasts cry Helmalee , Did he mistake his Compass very far , Thinking our Cock-stool was the pollur-star , And brought thee for to Anchor at this Port , Beneath the Shelter of the Maiden Fort , Writing in Capitals upon thy Stern , Here stands etcetera , that all may learn , The Cargo is return'd by his deep Skill , And that thou art a standing Merchant still , Around thy awful Throne , the Coasters crowd , Where thou in querpo stands by thousands View'd , While a Dutch Vessel for the Indies Bound , Carrying 700 Tun is run a Ground , Her Mainmast bruised , and floating in the Sea , But thou brave Man supports that useful Tree , Within thy Iron Barge , thou stands Erect , Safe with the Soldiery around the Deck , Pelted with Hand Grenads thou'rt firm as Steel , And does not hide thy self within the Keel . The Western Wind that regularly Blows , Knows the Sea Tides , and how she ebbs and flows , Made thee with success on his Billows Ride , Tho' some allege ye'r now at a Neep Tide , As if that Eolus stood at thy beck Nothing except thy Conscience went to Wreck , At Anchor riding , flory in your Mark , Painted upon your Stern , the Bankrupt Bark , Tho' punny sneaking Traders on the Brime , Upbraid thee as a Pyrate for a Crime , And cursing cry , behold the Smugler there , Who enter'd all his Goods the Lord knows where , Mad Words to keep a free Born Soul in awe , For these who follow Nature , Laugh at Law , How does the Squirel pillage all the Nuts , Hoard large Treasures for its little Guts , Such Wisdom is in the weak Rabbit found , It digs its Vaults and Store house in the Ground , So Salmon when they've fed on little Fish , Are Fat and full with many a sttollen Dish : Run to their Native Shores , and quites the Main , And when they've spawn'd , they do return again . Merchants should be like Solomon's wise Ants , To filch in Summer for the Winter's Wants , These winged Insects Lecture to the Saints . Philosophers conclude with learned Skill , The tim'rous Hare pursu'd makes up the Hill , Because her hinder Legs are very long , But her before ones are short and very Strong . So what a Merchant's Hands does safe convey , For that his Legs were made to run away : Observe the Water Duck pursu'd by Dogs , ( As many honest Bankrupt is by Rogues ) Immerges in the Pool to hide it's Head , Until the clam'rous Dogs believes its dead , And when the Dangers over it does Swim , Above the surface of the Silver Stream . How proudly do you Stand in that fair Spot , Thinking your Signature a 10 pound Note , Flown from it's Breth'ren in the Letter Case , To deck thy Breast , and gaze upon thy Face , See how all ranks are swarming to the street , As if they were to view th' East india Fleet. But when you turn your Eyes on the Black-Lords Like Devils or Yunkos handling of the Cords , And Jrbn Dalgliesh the Captain of the Ship , Does gravely to the Supercargo Trip , Then he concludrs , that all your Plots are fail'd . And they're preparing to have you Keel-hail'd ; Don't hang and Arse , your toils are overpast , And thou art now and Altar at the Mast. As these of old whom holy fervor seiz'd , Infants new Born to Moloch sacrific'd Passing thro' Flames to pacify his Wrath , And strove t'appease his Ire' with Children's Death . So thou , thro' Guards and Crouds in Triumph trodden To sacrifice to Mammon , thy Pagod . among the Roman Men of deathless frame , Who conquer'd bravely in the' Olimpick Game , Did in their Annals Shine , and were decreed , To've Wreaths of Olives twisted round their head , So you , who far excel all Men in Trade , Are thro' our Capital with glory led . Thy lovely Bombrief written on thy Breast , Which does thy high immoral Fates attest . Great Soul , how you despise the shocks of [ ? ] The vulgars Clamour , and the great ones hate , The jangling Lawyers with their harsh Term Dolus , ( Dang'rous and bitter as a Doctor's Bollus ) Contriv'd to bring thee to a triple Tree , But faill'd , and basely blunder'd in the Plea , Nobly was you acquit , that all may know it , You've borough a Large Testificat to show it . Fraud'lent Bankrupt is and Epithet , That rais'd thee to this high exalted Seat , Fraud Pious monnasylable has gain'd , What Honesty would never have attain'd . How many honest Men , that meet with loss , Do Skulk in Cog. and dare not see the Cross , Conscience , and Honesty's not worth Snuff . Beggarly Things they are not Caption Proof , But Fraud hath rais'd thee 'bove the Rank of Lairds , To have thy Liv'ry Man and armed Guards . Thou Glasgow Whale , couldst never yet abide , The stubborn Finny Fry that Swim in Clyde , You soon smell'd their Provisions with your Nose , And left them starving on the naked Oars , South Sea Directors in their Trade Stock-jobing . Were not more Crafty in their Art of Robbing : Go on to great Cowan , and triumphant Ride , To thy own Native Soul , the Banks of Clyde , And when in solemn Pomp , you mount the Tron , Believe that you ascend the Royal throne , And all your faithful Subjects looking on . Don't head the impious Mob , who'll pass this jest , You've Mean Tekel Written on your Breast . While he liv'd here , his Wares were never right And now he's Weigh'd himself , and is found Light , But when the Show is over then behold , Your secret Treasures and your Chests of Gold , Say to them , Oh my gods I hither haste To be rewarded for my Labours past . I have escaped from th' Enemies Hands , and now , With lowly rev'rance to my gods I bow , Papists may be afraid , but I am bold , They have a god of Bred , but all my gods are Gold . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 97 ) PANEGYRICK On Robert Cowan's Trip to the Tron , who should have been ex - posed there , with his Ditty on his Breast , Wednesday 22d , January 1724 , by Sentence of the Senators of the College of Justice , for defrauding his Creditors of vast Sums . Ad pulchrem est digito , monstrare & dicitur hic est . WHat Moonshine or Trade-wind hath blown thee here , Loadstone of Trade , why did the Skipper Steer Thy Vessel for to Harbour at this Tree , And sailing down our Coasts cry Helmalee , Did he mistake his Compass very far , Thinking our Cock-stool was the pollur-star , And brought thee for to Anchor at this Port , Beneath the Shelter of the Maiden Fort , Writing in Capitals upon thy Stern , Here stands etcetera , that all may learn , The Cargo is return'd by his deep Skill , And that thou art a standing Merchant still , Around thy awful Throne , the Coasters crowd , Where thou in querpo stands by thousands View'd , While a Dutch Vessel for the Indies Bound , Carrying 700 Tun is run a Ground , Her Mainmast bruised , and floating in the Sea , But thou brave Man supports that useful Tree , Within thy Iron Barge , thou stands Erect , Safe with the Soldiery around the Deck , Pelted with Hand Grenads thou'rt firm as Steel , And does not hide thy self within the Keel . The Western Wind that regularly Blows , Knows the Sea Tides , and how she ebbs and flows , Made thee with success on his Billows Ride , Tho' some allege ye'r now at a Neep Tide , As if that Eolus stood at thy beck Nothing except thy Conscience went to Wreck , At Anchor riding , flory in your Mark , Painted upon your Stern , the Bankrupt Bark , Tho' punny sneaking Traders on the Brime , Upbraid thee as a Pyrate for a Crime , And cursing cry , behold the Smugler there , Who enter'd all his Goods the Lord knows where , Mad Words to keep a free Born Soul in awe , For these who follow Nature , Laugh at Law , How does the Squirel pillage all the Nuts , Hoard large Treasures for its little Guts , Such Wisdom is in the weak Rabbit found , It digs its Vaults and Store house in the Ground , So Salmon when they've fed on little Fish , Are Fat and full with many a sttollen Dish : Run to their Native Shores , and quites the Main , And when they've spawn'd , they do return again . Merchants should be like Solomon's wise Ants , To filch in Summer for the Winter's Wants , These winged Insects Lecture to the Saints . Philosophers conclude with learned Skill , The tim'rous Hare pursu'd makes up the Hill , Because her hinder Legs are very long , But her before ones are short and very Strong . So what a Merchant's Hands does safe convey , For that his Legs were made to run away : Observe the Water Duck pursu'd by Dogs , ( As many honest Bankrupt is by Rogues ) Immerges in the Pool to hide it's Head , Until the clam'rous Dogs believes its dead , And when the Dangers over it does Swim , Above the surface of the Silver Stream . How proudly do you Stand in that fair Spot , Thinking your Signature a 10 pound Note , Flown from it's Breth'ren in the Letter Case , To deck thy Breast , and gaze upon thy Face , See how all ranks are swarming to the street , As if they were to view th' East india Fleet. But when you turn your Eyes on the Black-Lords Like Devils or Yunkos handling of the Cords , And Jrbn Dalgliesh the Captain of the Ship , Does gravely to the Supercargo Trip , Then he concludrs , that all your Plots are fail'd . And they're preparing to have you Keel-hail'd ; Don't hang and Arse , your toils are overpast , And thou art now and Altar at the Mast. As these of old whom holy fervor seiz'd , Infants new Born to Moloch sacrific'd Passing thro' Flames to pacify his Wrath , And strove t'appease his Ire' with Children's Death . So thou , thro' Guards and Crouds in Triumph trodden To sacrifice to Mammon , thy Pagod . among the Roman Men of deathless frame , Who conquer'd bravely in the' Olimpick Game , Did in their Annals Shine , and were decreed , To've Wreaths of Olives twisted round their head , So you , who far excel all Men in Trade , Are thro' our Capital with glory led . Thy lovely Bombrief written on thy Breast , Which does thy high immoral Fates attest . Great Soul , how you despise the shocks of [ ? ] The vulgars Clamour , and the great ones hate , The jangling Lawyers with their harsh Term Dolus , ( Dang'rous and bitter as a Doctor's Bollus ) Contriv'd to bring thee to a triple Tree , But faill'd , and basely blunder'd in the Plea , Nobly was you acquit , that all may know it , You've borough a Large Testificat to show it . Fraud'lent Bankrupt is and Epithet , That rais'd thee to this high exalted Seat , Fraud Pious monnasylable has gain'd , What Honesty would never have attain'd . How many honest Men , that meet with loss , Do Skulk in Cog. and dare not see the Cross , Conscience , and Honesty's not worth Snuff . Beggarly Things they are not Caption Proof , But Fraud hath rais'd thee 'bove the Rank of Lairds , To have thy Liv'ry Man and armed Guards . Thou Glasgow Whale , couldst never yet abide , The stubborn Finny Fry that Swim in Clyde , You soon smell'd their Provisions with your Nose , And left them starving on the naked Oars , South Sea Directors in their Trade Stock-jobing . Were not more Crafty in their Art of Robbing : Go on to great Cowan , and triumphant Ride , To thy own Native Soul , the Banks of Clyde , And when in solemn Pomp , you mount the Tron , Believe that you ascend the Royal throne , And all your faithful Subjects looking on . Don't head the impious Mob , who'll pass this jest , You've Mean Tekel Written on your Breast . While he liv'd here , his Wares were never right And now he's Weigh'd himself , and is found Light , But when the Show is over then behold , Your secret Treasures and your Chests of Gold , Say to them , Oh my gods I hither haste To be rewarded for my Labours past . I have escaped from th' Enemies Hands , and now , With lowly rev'rance to my gods I bow , Papists may be afraid , but I am bold , They have a god of Bred , but all my gods are Gold . FINIS . 