C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 104 ) CAPTAIN THOMAS GREEN'S Last farewell to the OCEAN and all the World , who was Execute with two more of his Crew at Leith within the Flood-Mark , 11 April 1705 , for Piracy and Murder . ADieu fair Ocean , on thee long I liv'd Plentifully , but now am soar griev'd , Thus shamefully to die in thy bounds , Without a Drop of thee to wash my Wounds , Which might perhaps have yielded relief , Or else diminished much of my grief Is now augmented , 'cause a silent Wave Of thee not hap [ ' ] ned to to have been my Grave ; For had I fallen by Neptuns fury , Or Mars his Arms , I had not in hurry Ended my days , as alas now I do ! I [ ? ] great Disgrace and Confusion too , [ ? ] before GOD and the World I can , Truly protest I never knew the Man , Whose Murderer I was said to be , Nor ever saw him by Land or Sea : Yet now by Malice of one , I must Hang ; Who eat my Bred , and serv'd ne too lang : Had I him sooner chanc'd to set a Shore Er we came hither , or that Lass , much more He had never hap'ned in Bruntisland to see , I should not been made so shamefully die . For this gross Crime of Murder is known , To all Spectators at my Death I disown . Therefore I him , and all Men do forgive , And wishes every Man truly to Live , In fear and favour both with GOD and Man , And not offend either so far's he can , Because the root of Malice does breed , A Cockatrice hatch'd of the Serpents seed . From which I pray all good Men be sav'd , That none may be of their Life so berav'd , As I [ tO ] his day by false Accusers am , To my disgrace , great prejudice and shame , Which for my Youthful sins I confess , To be GODS just Judgement , yet nevertheless Of th' Accusation for which now I die , I am before GOD and my Conscience free ; Though that the Law hath 'gainst me Sentence given , I hope my Soul shall find Mercy in Heaven . From him who is the Searcher of Hearts . And to each Man ( as his works are ) Imparts : Wherefore I desire all Men to prove Unfeignied to GOD and Man in Love ; lest if he should either of them offend , Justice Pursue him with and untimely end , As it hath done me and those of my Crew , Who at this time bid the World adieu . FINIS . EDINBURGH , Printed by G.J. in the Year 1705. C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 104 ) CAPTAIN THOMAS GREEN'S Last farewell to the OCEAN and all the World , who was Execute with two more of his Crew at Leith within the Flood-Mark , 11 April 1705 , for Piracy and Murder . ADieu fair Ocean , on thee long I liv'd Plentifully , but now am soar griev'd , Thus shamefully to die in thy bounds , Without a Drop of thee to wash my Wounds , Which might perhaps have yielded relief , Or else diminished much of my grief Is now augmented , 'cause a silent Wave Of thee not hap [ ' ] ned to to have been my Grave ; For had I fallen by Neptuns fury , Or Mars his Arms , I had not in hurry Ended my days , as alas now I do ! I [ ? ] great Disgrace and Confusion too , [ ? ] before GOD and the World I can , Truly protest I never knew the Man , Whose Murderer I was said to be , Nor ever saw him by Land or Sea : Yet now by Malice of one , I must Hang ; Who eat my Bred , and serv'd ne too lang : Had I him sooner chanc'd to set a Shore Er we came hither , or that Lass , much more He had never hap'ned in Bruntisland to see , I should not been made so shamefully die . For this gross Crime of Murder is known , To all Spectators at my Death I disown . Therefore I him , and all Men do forgive , And wishes every Man truly to Live , In fear and favour both with GOD and Man , And not offend either so far's he can , Because the root of Malice does breed , A Cockatrice hatch'd of the Serpents seed . From which I pray all good Men be sav'd , That none may be of their Life so berav'd , As I [ tO ] his day by false Accusers am , To my disgrace , great prejudice and shame , Which for my Youthful sins I confess , To be GODS just Judgement , yet nevertheless Of th' Accusation for which now I die , I am before GOD and my Conscience free ; Though that the Law hath 'gainst me Sentence given , I hope my Soul shall find Mercy in Heaven . From him who is the Searcher of Hearts . And to each Man ( as his works are ) Imparts : Wherefore I desire all Men to prove Unfeignied to GOD and Man in Love ; lest if he should either of them offend , Justice Pursue him with and untimely end , As it hath done me and those of my Crew , Who at this time bid the World adieu . FINIS . EDINBURGH , Printed by G.J. in the Year 1705. 