C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 107 ) Mrs. McLeod's last Farewell to John Gibson . McLeod , NOw John what makes thee look so shan , Brush up and look courageous , Man. We have had money a Cog between us , E'en san De'el a Saul has seen us , And since that nearest Friends must part , Here's to your Health wi' a' my Heart , Sae take your Scuds , John , and be merry . And drink a Health to Brother Currie , And seeing we must part believe , Sae lang's together , let's be blithe . John. Waes me , blithe how can I be , When I think on yond ugly Tree , And how Dagleish that foul-thumb'd Limmer , With nailing Lug too to the Timmer , Where with my Billet on my Breast , Must stand as grave's a new made Priest , And a' for being a Comrade To you , a dam'd eternal Jade , Who always wrought the Devil's Pleasure , If thereby you could mend your Treasure , Now I'm oblig'd to take a Scoup , Wi' Hangy's Foot into my Doup . Maun part wi' Wife an' a' my Children , And a' for Greed of getting Siller , And dare not come within the Bow , Altho' 't would vantage me a Cow . My Malison on your curs'd Face , That makes me suffer this Disgrace . By Forgery you more did cheat , Than in a Twelvemonth I'd repeat . McLeod , But John , pray whence come a' this balding , Fie hold your Peace Man , with your scaulding ; And e'en keep your self content , 'Tis after Time , now to repent . For Fifty Pounds , I'd stand your Caution , That I were but in your Condition . Quietly I'd be thankful John , To stand a Hail Day on the Tron , Were I but sure to pass for that , I would thank Heaven for my Fate . Your Sheverings , John , I shall repay , A Pair of Shammy Gloves ye's hae . And for your Napken , a Half Mantu Apron to be your Pock-mantn . And for your Tows , my Apron-strings , Take it down there , where it hings , And tho' that I die in a Teather , Ye'll mind , that we forg'd Bills together . John , I thank you for your Compliment , And now advice you to repent ; For it is best to make Confession , And not pretend to forge Remission . Lest old Lucky-Ded deceive you , And for your Pains , in Collops rive you . Make hast then , and take your Noggan , 'Tis near the Time that I were jogging . McLeod , Your Health John , and farewell to you , John , Money Thanks , and Deil be wi' you . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 107 ) Mrs. McLeod's last Farewell to John Gibson . McLeod , NOw John what makes thee look so shan , Brush up and look courageous , Man. We have had money a Cog between us , E'en san De'el a Saul has seen us , And since that nearest Friends must part , Here's to your Health wi' a' my Heart , Sae take your Scuds , John , and be merry . And drink a Health to Brother Currie , And seeing we must part believe , Sae lang's together , let's be blithe . John. Waes me , blithe how can I be , When I think on yond ugly Tree , And how Dagleish that foul-thumb'd Limmer , With nailing Lug too to the Timmer , Where with my Billet on my Breast , Must stand as grave's a new made Priest , And a' for being a Comrade To you , a dam'd eternal Jade , Who always wrought the Devil's Pleasure , If thereby you could mend your Treasure , Now I'm oblig'd to take a Scoup , Wi' Hangy's Foot into my Doup . Maun part wi' Wife an' a' my Children , And a' for Greed of getting Siller , And dare not come within the Bow , Altho' 't would vantage me a Cow . My Malison on your curs'd Face , That makes me suffer this Disgrace . By Forgery you more did cheat , Than in a Twelvemonth I'd repeat . McLeod , But John , pray whence come a' this balding , Fie hold your Peace Man , with your scaulding ; And e'en keep your self content , 'Tis after Time , now to repent . For Fifty Pounds , I'd stand your Caution , That I were but in your Condition . Quietly I'd be thankful John , To stand a Hail Day on the Tron , Were I but sure to pass for that , I would thank Heaven for my Fate . Your Sheverings , John , I shall repay , A Pair of Shammy Gloves ye's hae . And for your Napken , a Half Mantu Apron to be your Pock-mantn . And for your Tows , my Apron-strings , Take it down there , where it hings , And tho' that I die in a Teather , Ye'll mind , that we forg'd Bills together . John , I thank you for your Compliment , And now advice you to repent ; For it is best to make Confession , And not pretend to forge Remission . Lest old Lucky-Ded deceive you , And for your Pains , in Collops rive you . Make hast then , and take your Noggan , 'Tis near the Time that I were jogging . McLeod , Your Health John , and farewell to you , John , Money Thanks , and Deil be wi' you . 