C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 103 ) The last Speech and Confession of Jannet Riddle , who was Execute , for Murdering her own Child , in the Grass Market of Edinburgh , January 21st . 1702. O ! Oh! did ever any hear , of such and one as I ; The Laws cannot be too Severe ; for it's Reason that I Die , The Cru'lest Death that e're was known , because I did deny , Even Life to i when all alon , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Was not I then Unnatural , mine own Child for to Kill . For which I am ordan'd , Sirs , all your Eyes by Death to fill . When I and it then parted were , it did begin to Cry , But I soon stop its Mouth so fair , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Yea was it not great Cruelty , that enter'd in my mind , To despair of GOD's great Mercy , who Relief soon did find , To me , who of Relief was fain , before my Deliv'ry , Yet to my Child , I wrought great pain , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Which when Born , I did Repair , for to commit the deed . Not of GOD's Mercy taking care , I caus'd my Child to Bleed , The Div'l helped me to go on , and paved out the way , How I should make my Child begun , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . The World's shame me did entice , because I thought it great , This Bloody act to enterprise , for which here ends my Fate . And having thought for to promot ; its death without delay , I with great speed 'bout threw it's Throat , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . This being done , with little Grace , where I might lay the Child , I did Contrive for it a place , which when alive was Mild . 'Mong Feathers then the Bab I laid , with silence great I say , And being Dead , it Bleeding Stay'd , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . The Bloody Fact this being done , I thought my self secure . Yet GOD most High , it did think on , He such would not endure , But soon caus'd some as Witness stand , that they did hear it Cry , And that I kill'd it with my hand . which 'twixt my Sides did lie . I then with Boldness did soon Swear of such me to be free , Because I said none 'mong them there , with Child did e're me see . But when they also found the Child , I likewise did deny , That I then it my self had kill'd , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Saying it was by me dead Born , and I had laid it there , lest any Person should me Scorn , and Church be too severe . They not believing , I Confessed , at length , I was Guilty , And that its Life I there out pressed , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Oh! Sad and Grievous Cruelty , is it not for to hear , Children Murther'd even Mother's by . Oh! Sad for I may fear , Eternal Misery and Woe , may be my chance I say , Because I wrought it's overthrow , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . Yet though my Sins are many LORD , thy mercy's great are more , The Blessing give me of thy Word , good LORD I the Implore . Farewell Oh People , be you fil'd with Joy , for I do Die , For Murdering of my only Child , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 103 ) The last Speech and Confession of Jannet Riddle , who was Execute , for Murdering her own Child , in the Grass Market of Edinburgh , January 21st . 1702. O ! Oh! did ever any hear , of such and one as I ; The Laws cannot be too Severe ; for it's Reason that I Die , The Cru'lest Death that e're was known , because I did deny , Even Life to i when all alon , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Was not I then Unnatural , mine own Child for to Kill . For which I am ordan'd , Sirs , all your Eyes by Death to fill . When I and it then parted were , it did begin to Cry , But I soon stop its Mouth so fair , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Yea was it not great Cruelty , that enter'd in my mind , To despair of GOD's great Mercy , who Relief soon did find , To me , who of Relief was fain , before my Deliv'ry , Yet to my Child , I wrought great pain , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Which when Born , I did Repair , for to commit the deed . Not of GOD's Mercy taking care , I caus'd my Child to Bleed , The Div'l helped me to go on , and paved out the way , How I should make my Child begun , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . The World's shame me did entice , because I thought it great , This Bloody act to enterprise , for which here ends my Fate . And having thought for to promot ; its death without delay , I with great speed 'bout threw it's Throat , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . This being done , with little Grace , where I might lay the Child , I did Contrive for it a place , which when alive was Mild . 'Mong Feathers then the Bab I laid , with silence great I say , And being Dead , it Bleeding Stay'd , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . The Bloody Fact this being done , I thought my self secure . Yet GOD most High , it did think on , He such would not endure , But soon caus'd some as Witness stand , that they did hear it Cry , And that I kill'd it with my hand . which 'twixt my Sides did lie . I then with Boldness did soon Swear of such me to be free , Because I said none 'mong them there , with Child did e're me see . But when they also found the Child , I likewise did deny , That I then it my self had kill'd , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Saying it was by me dead Born , and I had laid it there , lest any Person should me Scorn , and Church be too severe . They not believing , I Confessed , at length , I was Guilty , And that its Life I there out pressed , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . Oh! Sad and Grievous Cruelty , is it not for to hear , Children Murther'd even Mother's by . Oh! Sad for I may fear , Eternal Misery and Woe , may be my chance I say , Because I wrought it's overthrow , which 'twixt my Sides long lie . Yet though my Sins are many LORD , thy mercy's great are more , The Blessing give me of thy Word , good LORD I the Implore . Farewell Oh People , be you fil'd with Joy , for I do Die , For Murdering of my only Child , which 'twixt my Sides did lie . FINIS . 