C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 99 ) A Huy and Cry after Sir John Barlycorn , A base Rebel denounc'd at the Horn , Fled from the Country where he was bred and Born . WE all the Drunkards of the Nation , Issue Our Royal Proclamation To you great King at Arms , the Lion , ( Since every Leidge thro' Drought is dying ; ) With all your Brethren , Heralds too , And Pursuevants , that follow you . On Sighed hereof , you mount the Cross , Display your Coats and your Cognosce , By Trumpet Voice will reach each Garrat , Publish to all the World Our Arrest . Forasmuch as We and Adherents , By many Acts of Our Sederunts , Have found , That Sir JOHN BARLEYCORN Was for the good of Mankind born , And therefore , that the Commonwealth Should drink his Blood to nourish Health : And that no free Leidge may be mocked , Who has a Penny in his Pocket ; His Tutor-Datives call'd the Brewers , Without Respect to Saints or Whores , Shall distribute thro' every Inn His Blood , to be a Medicine : And they who fail thro' mad Pretences , Which none will do , that keep their Senses , Be held a Rebel 'gainst the King , And Capers cut in Hangie's string : Yet notwithstanding , throw Contempt ( Which merits well a Hank of Hemp ) Of Justice , all Our Agents tell Us , The WORSER --- l a Drap is in and Ale-House . No more he comes to Bowl and Ring , Where he was ay the Tradesmen's King ; He's left the Beaux in Bowling-Green , And never at the Nine-Pins seen , Where Prentice Boys did toil and sweat Like Dog in Jack , that turns the Spit , And all the Boddles that they wone , Giv'n to their Sov'reign Lord Sir JOHN . No more he's Preses of the Rabble , At Shuffle-Boards or Billard-Table ; On Penny-Weddings turn's his Back , No more he gets the Pipers Plack : Fiddlers can neither say nor sing , Their Throats as dry as Fiddel-String . He made young Farmers blithe and fow , Each Jockey kiss'd his Jenny's Mow , And suck'd her Lips he was so keen , At Babies glour'd in others Eeen , The Threesome Reel danc'd to a Wonder , And Maiden Heads went off like Thunder ; At Fun'rals never shows his Head , The Living now's as dull's the Dead , The Lady Relict kiss'd Sir John , And rifted up the other Groan , But now with Grief she's doubly sunk , Wants both Sir John and the Defunct . Our Will is herefore , tell the People , With Voice as loud as Bells' in Steeple , They search and apprehend the Trewan , Who basely has deserted Brewing ; Betray'd by Fellows , who tell Lies , That he will sink thro' dear Excise : And they shall have a high Reward , Bring him before a drunken Laird , Who slept not found a single Night Since Sir JOHN BARLEYCORN took Flight ; Cries thro' his Dreams , I'll starve this Year , The feign a Farthing for our Bear : How will my Meg get Hoods and Hoops , Bra Clothes came from the Ale-Wives Stoups , Jock my old Son , and Will , his Brother , May turn Religious like their Mother ; Quit all their Hounds , and Hawks and Whores ; Na' more keep Ale-House and the Muirs , Next if you'l apprehend the Lown , And bring him to Auld-rickie's Town , Rich Burger's Wives will pay 'em fine , Who's Throats are dry with Forty nine . And Citizens , whose Purse is shorter , Are all consum'd with English Porter . If He return not at your Call , He's get the Curses of us all . His EPITAPH . Blithe has he been , but now He's gone , Of Commerads the bes What will we do without Sir JOHN , With Grief we're soar oppress'd : A better Subject and a Friend The Kingdom never saw ; But ah ! He made a fatal End , And yet He dy'd by Law . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 99 ) A Huy and Cry after Sir John Barlycorn , A base Rebel denounc'd at the Horn , Fled from the Country where he was bred and Born . WE all the Drunkards of the Nation , Issue Our Royal Proclamation To you great King at Arms , the Lion , ( Since every Leidge thro' Drought is dying ; ) With all your Brethren , Heralds too , And Pursuevants , that follow you . On Sighed hereof , you mount the Cross , Display your Coats and your Cognosce , By Trumpet Voice will reach each Garrat , Publish to all the World Our Arrest . Forasmuch as We and Adherents , By many Acts of Our Sederunts , Have found , That Sir JOHN BARLEYCORN Was for the good of Mankind born , And therefore , that the Commonwealth Should drink his Blood to nourish Health : And that no free Leidge may be mocked , Who has a Penny in his Pocket ; His Tutor-Datives call'd the Brewers , Without Respect to Saints or Whores , Shall distribute thro' every Inn His Blood , to be a Medicine : And they who fail thro' mad Pretences , Which none will do , that keep their Senses , Be held a Rebel 'gainst the King , And Capers cut in Hangie's string : Yet notwithstanding , throw Contempt ( Which merits well a Hank of Hemp ) Of Justice , all Our Agents tell Us , The WORSER --- l a Drap is in and Ale-House . No more he comes to Bowl and Ring , Where he was ay the Tradesmen's King ; He's left the Beaux in Bowling-Green , And never at the Nine-Pins seen , Where Prentice Boys did toil and sweat Like Dog in Jack , that turns the Spit , And all the Boddles that they wone , Giv'n to their Sov'reign Lord Sir JOHN . No more he's Preses of the Rabble , At Shuffle-Boards or Billard-Table ; On Penny-Weddings turn's his Back , No more he gets the Pipers Plack : Fiddlers can neither say nor sing , Their Throats as dry as Fiddel-String . He made young Farmers blithe and fow , Each Jockey kiss'd his Jenny's Mow , And suck'd her Lips he was so keen , At Babies glour'd in others Eeen , The Threesome Reel danc'd to a Wonder , And Maiden Heads went off like Thunder ; At Fun'rals never shows his Head , The Living now's as dull's the Dead , The Lady Relict kiss'd Sir John , And rifted up the other Groan , But now with Grief she's doubly sunk , Wants both Sir John and the Defunct . Our Will is herefore , tell the People , With Voice as loud as Bells' in Steeple , They search and apprehend the Trewan , Who basely has deserted Brewing ; Betray'd by Fellows , who tell Lies , That he will sink thro' dear Excise : And they shall have a high Reward , Bring him before a drunken Laird , Who slept not found a single Night Since Sir JOHN BARLEYCORN took Flight ; Cries thro' his Dreams , I'll starve this Year , The feign a Farthing for our Bear : How will my Meg get Hoods and Hoops , Bra Clothes came from the Ale-Wives Stoups , Jock my old Son , and Will , his Brother , May turn Religious like their Mother ; Quit all their Hounds , and Hawks and Whores ; Na' more keep Ale-House and the Muirs , Next if you'l apprehend the Lown , And bring him to Auld-rickie's Town , Rich Burger's Wives will pay 'em fine , Who's Throats are dry with Forty nine . And Citizens , whose Purse is shorter , Are all consum'd with English Porter . If He return not at your Call , He's get the Curses of us all . His EPITAPH . Blithe has he been , but now He's gone , Of Commerads the bes What will we do without Sir JOHN , With Grief we're soar oppress'd : A better Subject and a Friend The Kingdom never saw ; But ah ! He made a fatal End , And yet He dy'd by Law . 