C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 100 ) A BALSOM for BACKSLIDERS Or some Hints anent the Oath . of Abjuration , ALthough the News be spread of late Throughout our Scotish Nation , That we e're long shall be Defeat , By Papists their Invasion , Yet Presbyters be not Dismay'd . But look to Heaven for help and Aid , And let it never once be said , That we shall prove Faint Hearted , For if we shall our selves acquit , Themselves shall fallen into the Bir , Which Papists diggs to catch the Whig They shall be made to smart it . Whigs join in one doe not divide , In Circumstantial Matters , Or el's mischief shall you betide , From French and Romish Traitors ; Who now are lying at the Catch , True Presbyterians for to Dispatch , Your Ruin they contrive and Hatch , Forsooth you may Depend on't , Whoe're Divids and leaves your Guides , Without true Scripture on your side , You are to blame for all the Name , Of Whigs and there's anend on't . Some are Counted Honest Folk , Among a Foolish People . Because they're like the Weather Cock , That sits upon the Steeple , Which turns about with every Wind , To Novelties they're so inclin'd , They do not Love to be Con [ ? ] ' [ ? ] , To the present Constitution , Such itching Ears they have indeed , And so much Lightness in the Head , Church Union Yoke they still have broke Since the late Revolution . And many now Exception taken [ e ] At the Oath of Abjuration , Yea they do it Occasion make , And ground of Separation , Their Heads are put in such a stee [ ? ] That in their Conscience they're not clear , Their Parish Pastor's for to hear , Till they shall show Repentance , He passes currant for a Saint , Although prefoundly ignorant , That does debate 'gainst Church and State And Rashly passes Sentence . How can People at this Rate , Divided into Factions , Ever be without Debate , In all of their Transactions , It's since and Shame that ever we Who all Profess true Presbyteri Should we in Judgement broken be , And Various in Opinion , Scarce you'll meet a Company . But still there shall some Difference be , In this or that you'l not know wh [ a ] tO , Relating to Religion . Thus many on Extremes do Run , And that both Male and Female Some who at a Gnat do Strain , Yet Swallow down a Camel , Some with things beyond their Sphere , Do meddle such great Fools they are , In others Matters they must Share , Or else they are uneasy , Some they do great pleasure take , In what grea [ ? ] S [ ? ] ures and Troubles ma [ ? ] To Church and State which breed Deba [ ? ] Herein they are not Lazy . Did you but know what Hurt and Harm , Division it procureth . Unto the Church they're soar to blame , That knows and that not curreth , Occasion thereby Foes do Catch , Their Plots and Projects for to Hatch , Whereof I fear well get a Swaich , If we be no [ tO ] C [ e ] mented . The Church hath Enemies on each Hand , Hard by us watchfully do stand , And do Rejoice to hear the Noise , Of such as do Foment i If you be wise take my Advice , Be no more led aside Sirs , By any that are over Nice , And makes you to Div [ i ] de Sirs , But Join together Hand in Hand , And march in Covenant'd Bond. The Common Enemy to withstand . And guard against Division , A House Divided cannot stand , Be thou unite in Heart and Hand , Lest you be broke even by the Stroke , Of such as Love Confusion . For this Course of Division , You cannot Reason Render , You Authors of Confusion , You Friends to the Pretender . Begone Schismatics out of Doors , That Cuts but does not Cure our Sores , We do protest ye're none of ours , For all your great Profession , Within our Gates you shall not stand , And far less Rule and beas 'Oomman [ worser ] . Till you think shame even of your Nam [ e ] , Yea mourn and make Confession . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 100 ) A BALSOM for BACKSLIDERS Or some Hints anent the Oath . of Abjuration , ALthough the News be spread of late Throughout our Scotish Nation , That we e're long shall be Defeat , By Papists their Invasion , Yet Presbyters be not Dismay'd . But look to Heaven for help and Aid , And let it never once be said , That we shall prove Faint Hearted , For if we shall our selves acquit , Themselves shall fallen into the Bir , Which Papists diggs to catch the Whig They shall be made to smart it . Whigs join in one doe not divide , In Circumstantial Matters , Or el's mischief shall you betide , From French and Romish Traitors ; Who now are lying at the Catch , True Presbyterians for to Dispatch , Your Ruin they contrive and Hatch , Forsooth you may Depend on't , Whoe're Divids and leaves your Guides , Without true Scripture on your side , You are to blame for all the Name , Of Whigs and there's anend on't . Some are Counted Honest Folk , Among a Foolish People . Because they're like the Weather Cock , That sits upon the Steeple , Which turns about with every Wind , To Novelties they're so inclin'd , They do not Love to be Con [ ? ] ' [ ? ] , To the present Constitution , Such itching Ears they have indeed , And so much Lightness in the Head , Church Union Yoke they still have broke Since the late Revolution . And many now Exception taken [ e ] At the Oath of Abjuration , Yea they do it Occasion make , And ground of Separation , Their Heads are put in such a stee [ ? ] That in their Conscience they're not clear , Their Parish Pastor's for to hear , Till they shall show Repentance , He passes currant for a Saint , Although prefoundly ignorant , That does debate 'gainst Church and State And Rashly passes Sentence . How can People at this Rate , Divided into Factions , Ever be without Debate , In all of their Transactions , It's since and Shame that ever we Who all Profess true Presbyteri Should we in Judgement broken be , And Various in Opinion , Scarce you'll meet a Company . But still there shall some Difference be , In this or that you'l not know wh [ a ] tO , Relating to Religion . Thus many on Extremes do Run , And that both Male and Female Some who at a Gnat do Strain , Yet Swallow down a Camel , Some with things beyond their Sphere , Do meddle such great Fools they are , In others Matters they must Share , Or else they are uneasy , Some they do great pleasure take , In what grea [ ? ] S [ ? ] ures and Troubles ma [ ? ] To Church and State which breed Deba [ ? ] Herein they are not Lazy . Did you but know what Hurt and Harm , Division it procureth . Unto the Church they're soar to blame , That knows and that not curreth , Occasion thereby Foes do Catch , Their Plots and Projects for to Hatch , Whereof I fear well get a Swaich , If we be no [ tO ] C [ e ] mented . The Church hath Enemies on each Hand , Hard by us watchfully do stand , And do Rejoice to hear the Noise , Of such as do Foment i If you be wise take my Advice , Be no more led aside Sirs , By any that are over Nice , And makes you to Div [ i ] de Sirs , But Join together Hand in Hand , And march in Covenant'd Bond. The Common Enemy to withstand . And guard against Division , A House Divided cannot stand , Be thou unite in Heart and Hand , Lest you be broke even by the Stroke , Of such as Love Confusion . For this Course of Division , You cannot Reason Render , You Authors of Confusion , You Friends to the Pretender . Begone Schismatics out of Doors , That Cuts but does not Cure our Sores , We do protest ye're none of ours , For all your great Profession , Within our Gates you shall not stand , And far less Rule and beas 'Oomman [ worser ] . Till you think shame even of your Nam [ e ] , Yea mourn and make Confession . FINIS . 