C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 105 ) A Seasonable Advice , TO ALL who incline to go in Pirrating ; DRAWN FROM What has happ'ned to Captain Green , As it were from his own mouth , One of that Rank . To the Tune of , To the Weaver if you go , etc MY Countrymen who do intend on Pirrating to go , Be sure what e're you may pretend The certain end is woe , I know't to sad Experience . The better may I tell , I thought myself in Sure defence , But suddenly I fell . Some often did me much persuade , No ill to me should come Altho' of this I should make trade Even till the day of doom . But Oh! these thoughts are nought , for now , ( I tell it to my grief ) I to the SCOTS am made to bow , and they bring no Relief . They thought the SCOTS would never dar And English to Sentence , But they're beguiled very far , Tho' they pretended Sense . They're SCOTS , not sots , as they did say , Yea , Honest Men , and Bold ; Else for the Money I would pay , my life to me they'd sold . They surely know how some them hate and here they're not behind . They ev'n would eat such as their Meat if occasion they could find . And tho' it's true , WALLACE is dead , Y [ e ] tO take not Hope from that . Foe [ r ] sure there are some in his stead , Who some way fill his Hat . And now for all the Gear I wone I certainly must die , And nought will my offence atone but Hanging on a Tree , A Death ! I'm sure found out at first , for Dogs and not for Men , I'd rather suffer what they list , than thus my Name to stain . But this they slighting justly 'ntend a Scar. Crow me to make , To ev'ry Man who has a mind such course to undertake , What e're we think to do 'gainst them , I know they sure will stand : For I can say and all my Men , GOD is at their Right Hand . Therefore my Country Men , I pray be war you wrong the SCOTS , For GOD 'mongst them does open Lay , whats done 'gainst them in Plots , And tho' small Faults they oft Remit , of their great Clemency , Yet surely Medes , themselves they'l quite , in Crimes of this Degree . [ FI ] NIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 105 ) A Seasonable Advice , TO ALL who incline to go in Pirrating ; DRAWN FROM What has happ'ned to Captain Green , As it were from his own mouth , One of that Rank . To the Tune of , To the Weaver if you go , etc MY Countrymen who do intend on Pirrating to go , Be sure what e're you may pretend The certain end is woe , I know't to sad Experience . The better may I tell , I thought myself in Sure defence , But suddenly I fell . Some often did me much persuade , No ill to me should come Altho' of this I should make trade Even till the day of doom . But Oh! these thoughts are nought , for now , ( I tell it to my grief ) I to the SCOTS am made to bow , and they bring no Relief . They thought the SCOTS would never dar And English to Sentence , But they're beguiled very far , Tho' they pretended Sense . They're SCOTS , not sots , as they did say , Yea , Honest Men , and Bold ; Else for the Money I would pay , my life to me they'd sold . They surely know how some them hate and here they're not behind . They ev'n would eat such as their Meat if occasion they could find . And tho' it's true , WALLACE is dead , Y [ e ] tO take not Hope from that . Foe [ r ] sure there are some in his stead , Who some way fill his Hat . And now for all the Gear I wone I certainly must die , And nought will my offence atone but Hanging on a Tree , A Death ! I'm sure found out at first , for Dogs and not for Men , I'd rather suffer what they list , than thus my Name to stain . But this they slighting justly 'ntend a Scar. Crow me to make , To ev'ry Man who has a mind such course to undertake , What e're we think to do 'gainst them , I know they sure will stand : For I can say and all my Men , GOD is at their Right Hand . Therefore my Country Men , I pray be war you wrong the SCOTS , For GOD 'mongst them does open Lay , whats done 'gainst them in Plots , And tho' small Faults they oft Remit , of their great Clemency , Yet surely Medes , themselves they'l quite , in Crimes of this Degree . [ FI ] NIS . 