C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 115 ) A BLOCK for ALLAN RAMSAY'S WIGS , Or , the Famous POET , fall'n in a Sleep VOW Ally , what's come over you now ; Fain wa'd we hear some News frae you ; Some say ye'r Dead , but that's no True ; gin you fit Dumb , A Fig for a the canting Crew , they may sing Mum . Thou Thatch't our Noddles wi' thy Wigs , An' pleas't them wi' thy Wanton Jigs ; I'm sure 'twad gar't and rin ten Ligs , to hear thy Jo [ ? ] Bore hov'd thro' Briers and Thorny Sprigs , and ragged Rocks . But now we'r grown unco Scarce , Of Horse tail Wigs and Dogrell Verse , Patch't of Arabik Welsh an' Ears ; some lang some short , For you have flung beath at your A --- s an' weas me fort . Yet some allege on thee in Jock , You stack like Birky to the Block ; But sorrow shoot them thro' the Dock , that ca' you Dull , Shame ane I ken , but you can Mock , for a thin Scull . Tho' nane e're herd you Scald or Banter , Yet some allege th'us a great Vanter ; Weel cu'd your Muse tune her awn Chanter . beath bald an' fierce , Fling up her tail a fa' to Ranter , Kilbarcan Verse . Dull do we fit , now just like Sots An' seldom meet to take our Pots ; But bienly did we Drink our Groats , to hear thy Rhymes , So weel we lyk't thy Old Broad Scots , an' wanton Lines . We Laugh't to hear the Drols that passed , Twice the and Willie i'the Wast ; The Soger gae thy Muse a blast , made her so fain , Some think her Judgement god a cast , that Crack't her Brain . Tho' he's well kenned to be ne Butcher , Yet others think you dang the Soger ; Exampli gratia , Pet an' Rodger , thy Master Swatch , Nae more he will presume I Wadger , wi' thee to Match . But now thy Force to Counterballace , He has consulted , William Wallace ; By Jove I think , sick Jolly Fallows , ner'e Drew a Pen . Or may I hing on Hamons Gallows , then tilt again . Put sick and Edge , as thou was wont on ; I'm sure , that never was a blunt on : Make every hollow Rock , and Mounton ; repeat thy Sangs . Which since , thou Drank the sacred Fountan , thy Fancy thrangs . Cu'd e're Baltrees , for a the Brags ; Or wanton Willie waslan' Wags , So tightly Tune up Habbies Bags , say what they pleasant , Or aff our old Sangs Rive the Rags , gi' them bram Cleas . Thy Lines were Canty , quick and Smert ; Gar't ay Fo'ke Laugh , and Chear't their Heart Wha hes a Guinea , an' can spairt , by hook or crook But gladly wi' it will he pairt , to buy thy Book Nane can thy Verses cast a blot on , For Halt or Lame , i'm sure ther's not on ; So soft an' sweetly do they Trot on , wi' sick a Grace , Ey when we Read , wee'r forced to dot on , thy Bony Face . Dear Ramsay fit nae langer still , Rouse up thy Muse , and draw thy Quill ; Su'd you gi' P ------ k his Will , to gab an' Chaff . Lilt up the Lass o' Peties Mill , and Clear 'im aff . Thou never wast Saucy Sour or Shanty , Ay very Droll and never Taunty , But unco Jolly Blithe an' Canty ; just to our Mind , Thy Maik I'm sure , mo'other Twenty the wino' find . Thy Lines did Old Wives Hearts Inhance , Jump't just wi' good old Ignorance ; Thy Jigs gart them get up and Dance , as they'd been Daft . Yev'e lost your Tune , shame fa the Chance , thats dung you af't . Thy Innocent and Wanton Flights , Still past avua the Winter Nights , But Cherilus the Ladies Frights , Wi's Baudy tauk , Cheer up an' Charge him at the Rights , an' gar'im Quake . Ye'l gare Fo'k true hes dung you out'o't , Then tilt an' take another bout o't ; Gi' the Baboun a cliver Clout o't , wi' unco Pith , Weell can you do'd , you need not dou't o't , he'l soon gea with . When Country Lasses met in Flocks , About the Fire to spin their Rocks ; They a' telled Round thy Merry Jocks Money a Night , An' tov'd an' sang till a the Cocks , Crew fair Day Light . To hear thy sweet kind canty Words , Old Lucky Leugh an' a' the Herds , At ilka gaff she gart the Girds , fly free her Bung , we a' spoke sae co' she my Birds , when I was Young . You spoke in sick a Cuthy Leed , without er'e spelling they cu'd Reed , An' god thy Lines by Heart indeed , an' keep't them there , Better nor Paternoster Creed , or Common Prayer . A' thy bescatred Senses Ralzie , An' frae Parnassus make a Salzie ; Weev'e seen the Day , you Sang fu' Brallie , Pitkethly Well . Then up we'd ance more Ally Ally , bram Bessie B. FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 115 ) A BLOCK for ALLAN RAMSAY'S WIGS , Or , the Famous POET , fall'n in a Sleep VOW Ally , what's come over you now ; Fain wa'd we hear some News frae you ; Some say ye'r Dead , but that's no True ; gin you fit Dumb , A Fig for a the canting Crew , they may sing Mum . Thou Thatch't our Noddles wi' thy Wigs , An' pleas't them wi' thy Wanton Jigs ; I'm sure 'twad gar't and rin ten Ligs , to hear thy Jo [ ? ] Bore hov'd thro' Briers and Thorny Sprigs , and ragged Rocks . But now we'r grown unco Scarce , Of Horse tail Wigs and Dogrell Verse , Patch't of Arabik Welsh an' Ears ; some lang some short , For you have flung beath at your A --- s an' weas me fort . Yet some allege on thee in Jock , You stack like Birky to the Block ; But sorrow shoot them thro' the Dock , that ca' you Dull , Shame ane I ken , but you can Mock , for a thin Scull . Tho' nane e're herd you Scald or Banter , Yet some allege th'us a great Vanter ; Weel cu'd your Muse tune her awn Chanter . beath bald an' fierce , Fling up her tail a fa' to Ranter , Kilbarcan Verse . Dull do we fit , now just like Sots An' seldom meet to take our Pots ; But bienly did we Drink our Groats , to hear thy Rhymes , So weel we lyk't thy Old Broad Scots , an' wanton Lines . We Laugh't to hear the Drols that passed , Twice the and Willie i'the Wast ; The Soger gae thy Muse a blast , made her so fain , Some think her Judgement god a cast , that Crack't her Brain . Tho' he's well kenned to be ne Butcher , Yet others think you dang the Soger ; Exampli gratia , Pet an' Rodger , thy Master Swatch , Nae more he will presume I Wadger , wi' thee to Match . But now thy Force to Counterballace , He has consulted , William Wallace ; By Jove I think , sick Jolly Fallows , ner'e Drew a Pen . Or may I hing on Hamons Gallows , then tilt again . Put sick and Edge , as thou was wont on ; I'm sure , that never was a blunt on : Make every hollow Rock , and Mounton ; repeat thy Sangs . Which since , thou Drank the sacred Fountan , thy Fancy thrangs . Cu'd e're Baltrees , for a the Brags ; Or wanton Willie waslan' Wags , So tightly Tune up Habbies Bags , say what they pleasant , Or aff our old Sangs Rive the Rags , gi' them bram Cleas . Thy Lines were Canty , quick and Smert ; Gar't ay Fo'ke Laugh , and Chear't their Heart Wha hes a Guinea , an' can spairt , by hook or crook But gladly wi' it will he pairt , to buy thy Book Nane can thy Verses cast a blot on , For Halt or Lame , i'm sure ther's not on ; So soft an' sweetly do they Trot on , wi' sick a Grace , Ey when we Read , wee'r forced to dot on , thy Bony Face . Dear Ramsay fit nae langer still , Rouse up thy Muse , and draw thy Quill ; Su'd you gi' P ------ k his Will , to gab an' Chaff . Lilt up the Lass o' Peties Mill , and Clear 'im aff . Thou never wast Saucy Sour or Shanty , Ay very Droll and never Taunty , But unco Jolly Blithe an' Canty ; just to our Mind , Thy Maik I'm sure , mo'other Twenty the wino' find . Thy Lines did Old Wives Hearts Inhance , Jump't just wi' good old Ignorance ; Thy Jigs gart them get up and Dance , as they'd been Daft . Yev'e lost your Tune , shame fa the Chance , thats dung you af't . Thy Innocent and Wanton Flights , Still past avua the Winter Nights , But Cherilus the Ladies Frights , Wi's Baudy tauk , Cheer up an' Charge him at the Rights , an' gar'im Quake . Ye'l gare Fo'k true hes dung you out'o't , Then tilt an' take another bout o't ; Gi' the Baboun a cliver Clout o't , wi' unco Pith , Weell can you do'd , you need not dou't o't , he'l soon gea with . When Country Lasses met in Flocks , About the Fire to spin their Rocks ; They a' telled Round thy Merry Jocks Money a Night , An' tov'd an' sang till a the Cocks , Crew fair Day Light . To hear thy sweet kind canty Words , Old Lucky Leugh an' a' the Herds , At ilka gaff she gart the Girds , fly free her Bung , we a' spoke sae co' she my Birds , when I was Young . You spoke in sick a Cuthy Leed , without er'e spelling they cu'd Reed , An' god thy Lines by Heart indeed , an' keep't them there , Better nor Paternoster Creed , or Common Prayer . A' thy bescatred Senses Ralzie , An' frae Parnassus make a Salzie ; Weev'e seen the Day , you Sang fu' Brallie , Pitkethly Well . Then up we'd ance more Ally Ally , bram Bessie B. FINIS . 