C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 108 ) THE Last Farewell and Lamentation Of Mrs. McLEOID , who was execute in the Grass-Market of Edinburgh on the 8th of March 1727 , for the Crime of Forgery , with her last Farewell to the World . ALL People now both far and near , that sees my wretched State , Lament my Case , for why I am o ! most Unfortunate . In Canongate I born was of Parents of good Fame , Which makes me weep when I think on Hanging must be my End. ( 2 ) I ever lov'd my Parents Dear , while they were on the Earth , But o ! alas , when cruel Death deprived them of Breath . In the Canongate of Edinburgh my Father he had Fame , Of Honesty , which none could stain , tho' Hanging is my End. ( 3 ) I married was in tender Years to one McLeoid by Name , A Gentleman of Parents good , likewise of Birth and Fame ; But sinful Ways I did pursue , for to augment my Store , Which makes me now to quake with fear ; I'm ruin'd evermore . ( 4 ) My Husband cry'd , Leave off , leave off your Cheating Sinful Ways , Or you and I will surely smart when we are brought to Size . She cry'd begone you silly Slave , and do not trouble me , For Forgery I am condemn'd to hang upon a Tree . Part Second . MY loving Husband he is gone , and left me here forlorn , Because for Forgery I am seiz'd , which makes my Heart to mourn . I never Forg'd in my Life , nor knew what it did mean , I never could incline my Heart , to act such horrid Sin. ( 2 ) But yet I apprehended was , and cast in Prison strong , For Forgery , which grieves my Heart ; but those that did me Wrong , I leave them to the Judgement Day when they must all appear , To answer for that Blood , was shed , was purchased so dear . ( 3 ) When that the noble Lords did call , I Pannel'd was with speed , The City Guard convey'd me there , to Answer for the Deed. I charged was with Forgery , which I did still deny , But I was Guilty found at last for which I'm doom'd to die . ( 4 ) Now all good People Young and Old , mark well what I shall say , Serve you the Lord while you have Breath sincerely Night and Day , And never let your Thought incline to Forg'ry be not bent , For which I am arraign'd and cast ; you'll see my fatal End. ( 5 ) Now fare you well all Earthly Joys , farewell , farewell to thee , My precious Soul is panting long the Heavenly Courts to see . O save me now in my Distress , with thee there's Joys full Store ; Farewell , farewell all Earthly Joys , farewell for evermore . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 108 ) THE Last Farewell and Lamentation Of Mrs. McLEOID , who was execute in the Grass-Market of Edinburgh on the 8th of March 1727 , for the Crime of Forgery , with her last Farewell to the World . ALL People now both far and near , that sees my wretched State , Lament my Case , for why I am o ! most Unfortunate . In Canongate I born was of Parents of good Fame , Which makes me weep when I think on Hanging must be my End. ( 2 ) I ever lov'd my Parents Dear , while they were on the Earth , But o ! alas , when cruel Death deprived them of Breath . In the Canongate of Edinburgh my Father he had Fame , Of Honesty , which none could stain , tho' Hanging is my End. ( 3 ) I married was in tender Years to one McLeoid by Name , A Gentleman of Parents good , likewise of Birth and Fame ; But sinful Ways I did pursue , for to augment my Store , Which makes me now to quake with fear ; I'm ruin'd evermore . ( 4 ) My Husband cry'd , Leave off , leave off your Cheating Sinful Ways , Or you and I will surely smart when we are brought to Size . She cry'd begone you silly Slave , and do not trouble me , For Forgery I am condemn'd to hang upon a Tree . Part Second . MY loving Husband he is gone , and left me here forlorn , Because for Forgery I am seiz'd , which makes my Heart to mourn . I never Forg'd in my Life , nor knew what it did mean , I never could incline my Heart , to act such horrid Sin. ( 2 ) But yet I apprehended was , and cast in Prison strong , For Forgery , which grieves my Heart ; but those that did me Wrong , I leave them to the Judgement Day when they must all appear , To answer for that Blood , was shed , was purchased so dear . ( 3 ) When that the noble Lords did call , I Pannel'd was with speed , The City Guard convey'd me there , to Answer for the Deed. I charged was with Forgery , which I did still deny , But I was Guilty found at last for which I'm doom'd to die . ( 4 ) Now all good People Young and Old , mark well what I shall say , Serve you the Lord while you have Breath sincerely Night and Day , And never let your Thought incline to Forg'ry be not bent , For which I am arraign'd and cast ; you'll see my fatal End. ( 5 ) Now fare you well all Earthly Joys , farewell , farewell to thee , My precious Soul is panting long the Heavenly Courts to see . O save me now in my Distress , with thee there's Joys full Store ; Farewell , farewell all Earthly Joys , farewell for evermore . FINIS . 