C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 114 ) A THE YOUNG LAIRD and EDIN - BURGH KATY . NOW what you wha I met the Streen , coming down the Street my Jo ? My Mistress in her Tartan Skreen , sow Bonny braw , and sweet my Jo : My Dear , quoth I thanks to the Night , that never wish't a Lover ill , Since ye're out of your Mother's Sighed , let's take a wake up to the Hill. O Katy , wilt thou gang with me , and leave the dinsome Town a while , The Blossoms spruting frae the Tree , and a the Summer's gawn to smile , The Mavis , Nightingale , and Lark , the bleating Lamb and whistling Hind , And ilk Dale , Green Shaw , and Park , will nourish Health glad your Mind . Soon as the clear good Man of Day , bends his Morning Draught of Due , We'll gae to some Burnside and play , and gather Flowers to busk your brow : We'll pow the Deazies on the Green , the lucken Gowans from the Bog , Between Hands now & than we'll lean , and sport upon the Velvet Fog . There's up into a pleasant Glen , a wie Pice frae my Father's Tower , A cany soft and flowery Den , which airling Birks has form'd a Bower ; When e're the Sun grows hight and warm , we'll to the cauler Shade remove , There will I lock thee in my Arm , and love and kiss , and kiss & love . Katy's Answer . MY Mother's ay glouring o'er me , Tho' she did the same before me , I cannot get leave to look to my Love , Or else she'll be like to devour me , Right fain woo'd I take ye'r offer , Sweated Sir , but I'll Tine my Tocher Then Sandy ye'll fret , and wit your poor Kate , When e'er you seek in ye'r toom Coffer , For tho' my Father has plenty , Of Silver and Plenishing dainty ; Yet he's unco swear to twin with his Gear , And sae we had need to be Tenty : Tutor my Parents with Caution Be wily in ilk a Motion , Brag well o' ye'er Land , and there's my leal Hand , Win them , I'll be at your Devotion . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 114 ) A THE YOUNG LAIRD and EDIN - BURGH KATY . NOW what you wha I met the Streen , coming down the Street my Jo ? My Mistress in her Tartan Skreen , sow Bonny braw , and sweet my Jo : My Dear , quoth I thanks to the Night , that never wish't a Lover ill , Since ye're out of your Mother's Sighed , let's take a wake up to the Hill. O Katy , wilt thou gang with me , and leave the dinsome Town a while , The Blossoms spruting frae the Tree , and a the Summer's gawn to smile , The Mavis , Nightingale , and Lark , the bleating Lamb and whistling Hind , And ilk Dale , Green Shaw , and Park , will nourish Health glad your Mind . Soon as the clear good Man of Day , bends his Morning Draught of Due , We'll gae to some Burnside and play , and gather Flowers to busk your brow : We'll pow the Deazies on the Green , the lucken Gowans from the Bog , Between Hands now & than we'll lean , and sport upon the Velvet Fog . There's up into a pleasant Glen , a wie Pice frae my Father's Tower , A cany soft and flowery Den , which airling Birks has form'd a Bower ; When e're the Sun grows hight and warm , we'll to the cauler Shade remove , There will I lock thee in my Arm , and love and kiss , and kiss & love . Katy's Answer . MY Mother's ay glouring o'er me , Tho' she did the same before me , I cannot get leave to look to my Love , Or else she'll be like to devour me , Right fain woo'd I take ye'r offer , Sweated Sir , but I'll Tine my Tocher Then Sandy ye'll fret , and wit your poor Kate , When e'er you seek in ye'r toom Coffer , For tho' my Father has plenty , Of Silver and Plenishing dainty ; Yet he's unco swear to twin with his Gear , And sae we had need to be Tenty : Tutor my Parents with Caution Be wily in ilk a Motion , Brag well o' ye'er Land , and there's my leal Hand , Win them , I'll be at your Devotion . FINIS . 