C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 113 ) Lucky Spence's last Advice . I . THREE Times the Carline grain'd and rifted , Then from the Cod her Pow she lifted , In bawdy Policy well gifted , when now she fawn That Death na langer would be shifted , she thus began : II MY loving Lasses , I maun leave you ; But dinna with ye'r Greeting grieve me , Nor with ye'r Draunts and Droning deave me , but bring's a Gill ; For , Faith , my Bairns , you may believe me , 'tis 'gainst my Will . III . O clappet Bess , and shanker Meg , O'er good to work , or yet to beg , Lay Sunkots up for a fair Leg ; for , when you fail , Ye'r Face will not be worth a Feg , nor yet ye'r Tail . IV. When e'er you meet a Fool that's fow , That ye're a Maiden gar him trow : Seem nice , but stick to him like Glew ; and , when set down , Drive at the Jango till he spew , sin he'll sleep soun . V. When he's asleep , then dive and catch His ready Cash , his Rings or Watch ; And , gin he likes to light his Match at your Spunk-Box , Ne'er stand to let the fumbling Wratch e'en take the Pox. VI . Cleek a you can be Hook or Crook , Ryp ilky Poutch frae Nook to Nook , Be sure to truff his Pocket-Book ; saxty Pund Scots Is nae deaf Nits ; in little Bouk lies great Bank-Notes . VII . To get a Mense of whinging Fools , That's frighted for Repenting-Stools , Wha aften , when their Metal cools , turn sweer to pay ; Gar the Kirk-Boxie hale the Dools another Day . VIII . But daut Red-Coats , and let them scoup Free , for the Fou of cutty Stoup ; To gee them up you need na houp e'er to do weel : They'll rive ye'r Brats , and kick ye'r Doup , and play the Deel . IX . There's ae fair Cross attends the Craft , That cursed Correction-house , where ast Vild Hangy's Tax ye'r Riggins fast makes black and blae , Enough to pit a Body daf But what'll you say , X. Nane gathers Gear withouten Care , Ilk Pleasure has of Pain a Skare : Suppose then they should tirle you bore , and gar you fike , E'en learn to thole ; it's very fair ye're Nibour-like . XI . Forby , my Loves , count upo' Losses , Ye'r Milk-whyt Teeth , and Cheeks like Roses , When Jet-black Hair and Brigs of Noses favus down wi Dads , To keep your Hearts up 'neath sic Crosses , set up for Bawds . XII . With well crish'd Loofs I have been canty ; When e'er the Lads would fain a faun t'ye , To try the old Game Taunty Ranty , like Cursers keen , They took Advice of me your Aunty if you was clean . XIII . Then up I took my Siller Caw , And whistl'd benn while ane , while twa ; Round in his Lug , that there was a poor Country Kate , As halesome as the Well of Spaw , but unka blate . XIV . Sae , when e'er Company came in , And were upo' a merry Pin , I slaid away with little Din , and muckle Menss ; Lest Conscience Judge , it was a ane to Lucky Spence . XV . My Bennison come on good Doers , Who spend their Cash on Bawds and Whores ; May they ne'er want the Wale of Cures for a sair Snout . Foul saw the Quacks , that Fire smoors , and puts nam out . XVI . My Malison light ilky Day On them that drinks , and dis na pay , But takes a Snack , and rins away : May't be their Hap , Never to want a Gonorhaea , or rotten Clap. XVII . Lass , gee us in another Gill , A Mutchken , Jo , let's taken our Fill ; Let Death sin registrate his Bill : When I want Sense , I'll slip away with better Will , quo Lucky Spence . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 113 ) Lucky Spence's last Advice . I . THREE Times the Carline grain'd and rifted , Then from the Cod her Pow she lifted , In bawdy Policy well gifted , when now she fawn That Death na langer would be shifted , she thus began : II MY loving Lasses , I maun leave you ; But dinna with ye'r Greeting grieve me , Nor with ye'r Draunts and Droning deave me , but bring's a Gill ; For , Faith , my Bairns , you may believe me , 'tis 'gainst my Will . III . O clappet Bess , and shanker Meg , O'er good to work , or yet to beg , Lay Sunkots up for a fair Leg ; for , when you fail , Ye'r Face will not be worth a Feg , nor yet ye'r Tail . IV. When e'er you meet a Fool that's fow , That ye're a Maiden gar him trow : Seem nice , but stick to him like Glew ; and , when set down , Drive at the Jango till he spew , sin he'll sleep soun . V. When he's asleep , then dive and catch His ready Cash , his Rings or Watch ; And , gin he likes to light his Match at your Spunk-Box , Ne'er stand to let the fumbling Wratch e'en take the Pox. VI . Cleek a you can be Hook or Crook , Ryp ilky Poutch frae Nook to Nook , Be sure to truff his Pocket-Book ; saxty Pund Scots Is nae deaf Nits ; in little Bouk lies great Bank-Notes . VII . To get a Mense of whinging Fools , That's frighted for Repenting-Stools , Wha aften , when their Metal cools , turn sweer to pay ; Gar the Kirk-Boxie hale the Dools another Day . VIII . But daut Red-Coats , and let them scoup Free , for the Fou of cutty Stoup ; To gee them up you need na houp e'er to do weel : They'll rive ye'r Brats , and kick ye'r Doup , and play the Deel . IX . There's ae fair Cross attends the Craft , That cursed Correction-house , where ast Vild Hangy's Tax ye'r Riggins fast makes black and blae , Enough to pit a Body daf But what'll you say , X. Nane gathers Gear withouten Care , Ilk Pleasure has of Pain a Skare : Suppose then they should tirle you bore , and gar you fike , E'en learn to thole ; it's very fair ye're Nibour-like . XI . Forby , my Loves , count upo' Losses , Ye'r Milk-whyt Teeth , and Cheeks like Roses , When Jet-black Hair and Brigs of Noses favus down wi Dads , To keep your Hearts up 'neath sic Crosses , set up for Bawds . XII . With well crish'd Loofs I have been canty ; When e'er the Lads would fain a faun t'ye , To try the old Game Taunty Ranty , like Cursers keen , They took Advice of me your Aunty if you was clean . XIII . Then up I took my Siller Caw , And whistl'd benn while ane , while twa ; Round in his Lug , that there was a poor Country Kate , As halesome as the Well of Spaw , but unka blate . XIV . Sae , when e'er Company came in , And were upo' a merry Pin , I slaid away with little Din , and muckle Menss ; Lest Conscience Judge , it was a ane to Lucky Spence . XV . My Bennison come on good Doers , Who spend their Cash on Bawds and Whores ; May they ne'er want the Wale of Cures for a sair Snout . Foul saw the Quacks , that Fire smoors , and puts nam out . XVI . My Malison light ilky Day On them that drinks , and dis na pay , But takes a Snack , and rins away : May't be their Hap , Never to want a Gonorhaea , or rotten Clap. XVII . Lass , gee us in another Gill , A Mutchken , Jo , let's taken our Fill ; Let Death sin registrate his Bill : When I want Sense , I'll slip away with better Will , quo Lucky Spence . FINIS . 