C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 112 ) R ELEGY On LUCKY WOOD . 1. O CANNYGATE poor Ellritch hold What Loss what Crosses does thou thole ? London and Death garrs thee look droll and hing thy head ; Wow but thou has e'ne a called Coal to Blaw indeed . 2. Hear me you Hills and every Glen , Ilk Craig , ilk Cleugh , and hollow Den , And Echo shrill that aa way ken the Waefow Thud Be Reckless Death wha came unsen to Lucky Wood . 3. She's Dead ou're true , she's Dead and gane , Left us and WILLY burd alane , To Bleer and Greet to Sob and Mane and Rive our Hair ; Because we'le ne're see her again our Hearts are Sair . 4. She gae'd as sait as a new Prin , And kept her Houssie Snod and Been ; Her Peuter glanc'd upon your Een like Siller Plate ; She was a donsy Wife and clean without Debate . 5. It did ane good to see her Stools , Board , Fireside and Facing Tools , Rax , Chandlers , Tangs and Fire-shools Basket with Bred Poor Facers now may chew Pea-hools since Luky's Dead . 6. She ne're gae in a Lawin faass , Nor Stoups awe froth aboon the haass , Nor kept dow'd Tip within her Waa's but Reeming Swats , She never ran four Jute , because it gee's the Bats . 7. She had the Gate so well to please With GRATIS Beef , dry Fish or Cheese , Which kept our Purses ay at ease and Health in Tift , And lent her fresh Nine Gallon Trees a hearty Lift . 8. She gae us aft hale Legs oh Lamb , And did nae hain her Mutton Ham , And ay at Yule when e're we came a braw Goose Pye , And was nae that good Belly baum nane dare deny . 9. The Writer Lads fou well may mind her , Furthy was she , her Luck design'd her Their common Mither , sure nane kinder e're brake Bred ; She has nae left her Maik behind her , but now she's Dead . 10. To the smaa Hours we aft sat still , Nick'd round our Toasts and Snishing Mill , Which aften cost us many a Gill to Aickenhead ; Good Cakes we wanted ne're at will the best of Bred . 11. Cou'd our saat Tears like Clyde down rin , And had we Cheeks like Corra's Lin , That aa the World might hear the din Rair frae ilk head ; She was the wale of aa her Kin , but now she's Dead . 12. O LUCKY WOOD its hard to bear The Loss but Oh! we man forbear , Yet fallen thy Memory be dear while Blooms a Tree , And after Ages Bairns will spear 'BOUT THE AND ME . EPITAPH . BEneath this Sod lies LUCKY WOOD , Whom aa Men might put Faith in , Who was nae sweer while she liv'd here , To cram our Wames for naithing . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 112 ) R ELEGY On LUCKY WOOD . 1. O CANNYGATE poor Ellritch hold What Loss what Crosses does thou thole ? London and Death garrs thee look droll and hing thy head ; Wow but thou has e'ne a called Coal to Blaw indeed . 2. Hear me you Hills and every Glen , Ilk Craig , ilk Cleugh , and hollow Den , And Echo shrill that aa way ken the Waefow Thud Be Reckless Death wha came unsen to Lucky Wood . 3. She's Dead ou're true , she's Dead and gane , Left us and WILLY burd alane , To Bleer and Greet to Sob and Mane and Rive our Hair ; Because we'le ne're see her again our Hearts are Sair . 4. She gae'd as sait as a new Prin , And kept her Houssie Snod and Been ; Her Peuter glanc'd upon your Een like Siller Plate ; She was a donsy Wife and clean without Debate . 5. It did ane good to see her Stools , Board , Fireside and Facing Tools , Rax , Chandlers , Tangs and Fire-shools Basket with Bred Poor Facers now may chew Pea-hools since Luky's Dead . 6. She ne're gae in a Lawin faass , Nor Stoups awe froth aboon the haass , Nor kept dow'd Tip within her Waa's but Reeming Swats , She never ran four Jute , because it gee's the Bats . 7. She had the Gate so well to please With GRATIS Beef , dry Fish or Cheese , Which kept our Purses ay at ease and Health in Tift , And lent her fresh Nine Gallon Trees a hearty Lift . 8. She gae us aft hale Legs oh Lamb , And did nae hain her Mutton Ham , And ay at Yule when e're we came a braw Goose Pye , And was nae that good Belly baum nane dare deny . 9. The Writer Lads fou well may mind her , Furthy was she , her Luck design'd her Their common Mither , sure nane kinder e're brake Bred ; She has nae left her Maik behind her , but now she's Dead . 10. To the smaa Hours we aft sat still , Nick'd round our Toasts and Snishing Mill , Which aften cost us many a Gill to Aickenhead ; Good Cakes we wanted ne're at will the best of Bred . 11. Cou'd our saat Tears like Clyde down rin , And had we Cheeks like Corra's Lin , That aa the World might hear the din Rair frae ilk head ; She was the wale of aa her Kin , but now she's Dead . 12. O LUCKY WOOD its hard to bear The Loss but Oh! we man forbear , Yet fallen thy Memory be dear while Blooms a Tree , And after Ages Bairns will spear 'BOUT THE AND ME . EPITAPH . BEneath this Sod lies LUCKY WOOD , Whom aa Men might put Faith in , Who was nae sweer while she liv'd here , To cram our Wames for naithing . 