THE Lord RUSSELS Farewell , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields' JULY 21st . 1683. To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . PRide the bane of humane creatures , will corrupt the best of nature's , when it soars to its full height , who can stand it or command it , when the object is in sighed ? Reason is no more our jewel , When our dearest thoughts are cruel , all her Maxims are forgo Else what reason , was for Treason , [ ? ] his base inhumane Plot . Russel that injoy'd the treasure , Every way repleat with pleasure , had Alegience quite forgo Hope's of Gifting did advice him , to this base inhumane Plot . Who alas ! could he desire , That himself could not require , pride did only him besot ; To aspire to grow higher , By a base inhumane Plot . Safely might have liv'd forever , In a gracious Princes favour , and more honour there have go Then his thoughts what e're they wrought , By any base inhumane Plot . Those false hope's that did deceive him , With his nature will not leave him , nor with his poor body ro While records , the world affords , his Treason ne'r will be forgotten . Better be the Earl of Bedford , Then for Treason lose his Head for't , and to make his name a blo In each Libel as a Rebel , In a base inhumane Plot . If his Prince had ever left him , Or of any Grace bereft him , e're his Treason force his Lo Yet Obedience and Alegience , should have kept him from this Plot . Treason is a Crime 'gainst nature , Against Kings the highest matter , sure can never be forgo he that blames him does profane him and his soul is in the Plot . Russel dy'd then unlamented , By all men but who consented to this damn'd inhumane Plo To Destroy the Nations joy , the King and Monarchy should Rot. But Heavens preserve the Crimson Royal And bring all the rest to trial who Alegience have forgo And confounded be each Round-head , in this damn'd inhumane Plot . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smithfield . THE Lord RUSSELS Farewell , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields' JULY 21st . 1683. To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . PRide the bane of humane creatures , will corrupt the best of nature's , when it soars to its full height , who can stand it or command it , when the object is in sighed ? Reason is no more our jewel , When our dearest thoughts are cruel , all her Maxims are forgo Else what reason , was for Treason , [ ? ] his base inhumane Plot . Russel that injoy'd the treasure , Every way repleat with pleasure , had Alegience quite forgo Hope's of Gifting did advice him , to this base inhumane Plot . Who alas ! could he desire , That himself could not require , pride did only him besot ; To aspire to grow higher , By a base inhumane Plot . Safely might have liv'd forever , In a gracious Princes favour , and more honour there have go Then his thoughts what e're they wrought , By any base inhumane Plot . Those false hope's that did deceive him , With his nature will not leave him , nor with his poor body ro While records , the world affords , his Treason ne'r will be forgotten . Better be the Earl of Bedford , Then for Treason lose his Head for't , and to make his name a blo In each Libel as a Rebel , In a base inhumane Plot . If his Prince had ever left him , Or of any Grace bereft him , e're his Treason force his Lo Yet Obedience and Alegience , should have kept him from this Plot . Treason is a Crime 'gainst nature , Against Kings the highest matter , sure can never be forgo he that blames him does profane him and his soul is in the Plot . Russel dy'd then unlamented , By all men but who consented to this damn'd inhumane Plo To Destroy the Nations joy , the King and Monarchy should Rot. But Heavens preserve the Crimson Royal And bring all the rest to trial who Alegience have forgo And confounded be each Round-head , in this damn'd inhumane Plot . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smithfield . THE Lord RUSSELS Farewell , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields' JULY 21st . 1683. To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . PRide the bane of humane creatures , will corrupt the best of nature's , when it soars to its full height , who can stand it or command it , when the object is in sighed ? Reason is no more our jewel , When our dearest thoughts are cruel , all her Maxims are forgo Else what reason , was for Treason , [ ? ] his base inhumane Plot . Russel that injoy'd the treasure , Every way repleat with pleasure , had Alegience quite forgo Hope's of Gifting did advice him , to this base inhumane Plot . Who alas ! could he desire , That himself could not require , pride did only him besot ; To aspire to grow higher , By a base inhumane Plot . Safely might have liv'd forever , In a gracious Princes favour , and more honour there have go Then his thoughts what e're they wrought , By any base inhumane Plot . Those false hope's that did deceive him , With his nature will not leave him , nor with his poor body ro While records , the world affords , his Treason ne'r will be forgotten . Better be the Earl of Bedford , Then for Treason lose his Head for't , and to make his name a blo In each Libel as a Rebel , In a base inhumane Plot . If his Prince had ever left him , Or of any Grace bereft him , e're his Treason force his Lo Yet Obedience and Alegience , should have kept him from this Plot . Treason is a Crime 'gainst nature , Against Kings the highest matter , sure can never be forgo he that blames him does profane him and his soul is in the Plot . Russel dy'd then unlamented , By all men but who consented to this damn'd inhumane Plo To Destroy the Nations joy , the King and Monarchy should Rot. But Heavens preserve the Crimson Royal And bring all the rest to trial who Alegience have forgo And confounded be each Round-head , in this damn'd inhumane Plot . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smithfield . THE Lord RUSSELS Farewell , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields' JULY 21st . 1683. To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . PRide the bane of humane creatures , will corrupt the best of nature's , when it soars to its full height , who can stand it or command it , when the object is in sighed ? Reason is no more our jewel , When our dearest thoughts are cruel , all her Maxims are forgo Else what reason , was for Treason , [ ? ] his base inhumane Plot . Russel that injoy'd the treasure , Every way repleat with pleasure , had Alegience quite forgo Hope's of Gifting did advice him , to this base inhumane Plot . Who alas ! could he desire , That himself could not require , pride did only him besot ; To aspire to grow higher , By a base inhumane Plot . Safely might have liv'd forever , In a gracious Princes favour , and more honour there have go Then his thoughts what e're they wrought , By any base inhumane Plot . Those false hope's that did deceive him , With his nature will not leave him , nor with his poor body ro While records , the world affords , his Treason ne'r will be forgotten . Better be the Earl of Bedford , Then for Treason lose his Head for't , and to make his name a blo In each Libel as a Rebel , In a base inhumane Plot . If his Prince had ever left him , Or of any Grace bereft him , e're his Treason force his Lo Yet Obedience and Alegience , should have kept him from this Plot . Treason is a Crime 'gainst nature , Against Kings the highest matter , sure can never be forgo he that blames him does profane him and his soul is in the Plot . Russel dy'd then unlamented , By all men but who consented to this damn'd inhumane Plo To Destroy the Nations joy , the King and Monarchy should Rot. But Heavens preserve the Crimson Royal And bring all the rest to trial who Alegience have forgo And confounded be each Round-head , in this damn'd inhumane Plot . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smithfield . 