The Old Gentleman's WISH , OR The Reformed Old Gentleman . I am grown old , Alas ! My seventy years are pas I Wish with all my heart , I may grow wise at last . 2. When I was passed a Child , I left the Grammar-school , ( Found Parents ! ) Ah! I Wish , I had not been a Fool. 3. Having my liberty , And Money , every day , ( I Wish none wou'd do thus ) Ah! I did game and play . 4. Youth is the seeding time , From whence good fruits shou'd grow I brought forth noisome weeds : I Wish I'd not done so . 5. I kept ill Company , My Hawks , and Hounds , and worse : One can't to enemies Wish any greater Curse . 6. I and my bonny Fellows Had many a vagary , And after drank down since , In Clarret and Canary . 7. But now I see my faults , How I have gone astray : That God wou'd set me right , I hugely Wish and Pray . 8. O Happy Change ! When Grace Assisting Industry , Preventing , following Grace ( I Wish ) may wants supply . 9. My old Companions Themselves from me withdraw : I sadly Wish , I had Their Faces never saw . 10. O Time ! most precious Time ! I Wish thee come again . Impossible it is : To Wish it is in vain . 11. Time past cannot return : You can't undo , what's done . 'Tis as hard , as in's course To stop the Giant Sun. 12. Yet I do Wish and pray , My Time I may redeem , By double Diligence : This a Wise Wish will seem . 13. And now I entertain A Sober , Learned Friend , To'improve me , and I Wish To keep him to my end . 14. We read the Psalmody , And Gospel , every Day : At the Church and at home , We Two together pray . 15. We love God's Ministers , Obey in every thing : We daily pray and Wish All Honour to the King . 16. My Noble Friends , do you Get such a Guide , and then You may be what I Wish , Right good Old Gentlemen . C.B. Printed for John Barksdale Bookseller in Cirencester . 1685. The Old Gentleman's WISH , OR The Reformed Old Gentleman . I am grown old , Alas ! My seventy years are pas I Wish with all my heart , I may grow wise at last . 2. When I was passed a Child , I left the Grammar-school , ( Found Parents ! ) Ah! I Wish , I had not been a Fool. 3. Having my liberty , And Money , every day , ( I Wish none wou'd do thus ) Ah! I did game and play . 4. Youth is the seeding time , From whence good fruits shou'd grow I brought forth noisome weeds : I Wish I'd not done so . 5. I kept ill Company , My Hawks , and Hounds , and worse : One can't to enemies Wish any greater Curse . 6. I and my bonny Fellows Had many a vagary , And after drank down since , In Clarret and Canary . 7. But now I see my faults , How I have gone astray : That God wou'd set me right , I hugely Wish and Pray . 8. O Happy Change ! When Grace Assisting Industry , Preventing , following Grace ( I Wish ) may wants supply . 9. My old Companions Themselves from me withdraw : I sadly Wish , I had Their Faces never saw . 10. O Time ! most precious Time ! I Wish thee come again . Impossible it is : To Wish it is in vain . 11. Time past cannot return : You can't undo , what's done . 'Tis as hard , as in's course To stop the Giant Sun. 12. Yet I do Wish and pray , My Time I may redeem , By double Diligence : This a Wise Wish will seem . 13. And now I entertain A Sober , Learned Friend , To'improve me , and I Wish To keep him to my end . 14. We read the Psalmody , And Gospel , every Day : At the Church and at home , We Two together pray . 15. We love God's Ministers , Obey in every thing : We daily pray and Wish All Honour to the King . 16. My Noble Friends , do you Get such a Guide , and then You may be what I Wish , Right good Old Gentlemen . C.B. Printed for John Barksdale Bookseller in Cirencester . 1685. 