Project Gutenberg's Fables for the Frivolous, by Guy Whitmore Carryl

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Fables for the Frivolous

Author: Guy Whitmore Carryl

Posting Date: January 27, 2009 [EBook #6438]
Release Date: September, 2004
First posted: December 14, 2002

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FABLES FOR THE FRIVOLOUS ***




Produced by Steve Schulze, Charles Franks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team. The scans for this book are
from the Michigan State University Online Digital Collection
http://digital.lib.msu.edu/onlinecolls/collection.cfm?CID=3










FABLES FOR THE FRIVOLOUS

_(With Apologies to La Fontaine)_

By GUY WETMORE CARRYL

With Illustrations by Peter Newell


1898




FABLES FOR THE FRIVOLOUS


TO MY FATHER





NOTE:
I have pleasure in acknowledging the courteous permission
the editors to reprint in this form such of the following fables
were originally published in Harper's periodicals, in _Life_,
and _Munsey's Magazine_.

G. W. C.





                 CONTENTS

THE AMBITIOUS FOX AND THE UNAPPROACHABLE GRAPES

THE PERSEVERING TORTOISE AND THE PRETENTIOUS HARE

THE PATRICIAN PEACOCKS AND THE OVERWEENING JAY

THE ARROGANT FROG AND THE SUPERIOR BULL

THE DOMINEERING EAGLE AND THE INVENTIVE BRATLING

THE ICONOCLASTIC RUSTIC AND THE APROPOS ACORN

THE UNUSUAL GOOSE AND THE IMBECILIC WOODCUTTER

THE RUDE RAT AND THE UNOSTENTATIOUS OYSTER

THE URBAN RAT AND THE SUBURBAN RAT

THE IMPECUNIOUS CRICKET AND THE FRUGAL ANT

THE PAMPERED LAPDOG AND THE MISGUIDED ASS

THE VAINGLORIOUS OAK AND THE MODEST BULRUSH

THE INHUMAN WOLF AND THE LAMB SANS GENE

THE SYCOPHANTIC FOX AND THE GULLIBLE RAVEN

THE MICROSCOPIC TROUT AND THE MACHIAVELIAN FISHERMAN

THE CONFIDING PEASANT AND THE MALADROIT BEAR

THE PRECIPITATE COCK AND THE UNAPPRECIATED PEARL

THE ABBREVIATED FOX AND HIS SCEPTICAL COMRADES

THE HOSPITABLE CALEDONIAN AND THE THANKLESS VIPER

THE IMPETUOUS BREEZE AND THE DIPLOMATIC SUN




ILLUSTRATIONS

"THE FOX RETREATED OUT OF RANGE"

"HE STROVE TO GROW ROTUNDER"

"AN ACORN FELL ABRUPTLY"

"SAID SHE, 'GET UP, YOU BRUTE YOU!'"

"'_J'ADMIRE_,' SAID HE, '_TON BEAU PLUMAGE'_"

"AND SO A WEIGHTY ROCK SHE AIMED"







         THE AMBITIOUS FOX

               AND

      THE UNAPPROACHABLE GRAPES

  A farmer built around his crop
    A wall, and crowned his labors
  By placing glass upon the top
    To lacerate his neighbors,
      Provided they at any time
      Should feel disposed the wall to climb.

  He also drove some iron pegs
    Securely in the coping,
  To tear the bare, defenceless legs
    Of brats who, upward groping,
      Might steal, despite the risk of fall,
      The grapes that grew upon the wall.

  One day a fox, on thieving bent,
    A crafty and an old one,
  Most shrewdly tracked the pungent scent
    That eloquently told one
      That grapes were ripe and grapes were good
      And likewise in the neighborhood.

  He threw some stones of divers shapes
    The luscious fruit to jar off:
  It made him ill to see the grapes
    So near and yet so far off.
      His throws were strong, his aim was fine,
      But "Never touched me!" said the vine.

  The farmer shouted, "Drat the boys!"
  And, mounting on a ladder,
  He sought the cause of all the noise;
  No farmer could be madder,
    Which was not hard to understand
    Because the glass had cut his hand.

  His passion he could not restrain,
    But shouted out, "You're thievish!"
  The fox replied, with fine disdain,
    "Come, country, don't be peevish."
      (Now "country" is an epithet
      One can't forgive, nor yet forget.)

  The farmer rudely answered back
    With compliments unvarnished,
  And downward hurled the _bric-a-brac_
    With which the wall was garnished,
      In view of which demeanor strange,
      The fox retreated out of range.

  "I will not try the grapes to-day,"
    He said. "My appetite is
  Fastidious, and, anyway,
    I fear appendicitis."
      (The fox was one of the _elite_
      Who call it _site_ instead of _seet_.)

  The moral is that if your host
    Throws glass around his entry
  You know it isn't done by most
    Who claim to be the gentry,
      While if he hits you in the head
      You may be sure he's underbred.





     THE PERSEVERING TORTOISE

               AND

       THE PRETENTIOUS HARE

  Once a turtle, finding plenty
    In seclusion to bewitch,
  Lived a _dolce far niente_
    Kind of life within a ditch;
  Rivers had no charm for him,
    As he told his wife and daughter,
  "Though my friends are in the swim,
    Mud is thicker far than water."

  One fine day, as was his habit,
    He was dozing in the sun,
  When a young and flippant rabbit
    Happened by the ditch to run:
  "Come and race me," he exclaimed,
    "Fat inhabitant of puddles.
  Sluggard! You should be ashamed.
    Such a life the brain befuddles."

  This, of course, was banter merely,
    But it stirred the torpid blood
  Of the turtle, and severely
    Forth he issued from the mud.
  "Done!" he cried. The race began,
    But the hare resumed his banter,
  Seeing how his rival ran
    In a most unlovely canter.

  Shouting, "Terrapin, you're bested!
    You'd be wiser, dear old chap,
  If you sat you down and rested
    When you reach the second lap."
  Quoth the turtle, "I refuse.
    As for you, with all your talking,
  Sit on any lap you choose.
    _I_ shall simply go on walking."

  Now this sporting proposition
    Was, upon its face, absurd;
  Yet the hare, with expedition,
    Took the tortoise at his word,
  Ran until the final lap,
    Then, supposing he'd outclassed him,
  Laid him down and took a nap
    And the patient turtle passed him!

  Plodding on, he shortly made the
    Line that marked the victor's goal;
  Paused, and found he'd won, and laid the
    Flattering unction to his soul.
  Then in fashion grandiose,
    Like an after-dinner speaker,
  Touched his flipper to his nose,
    And remarked, "Ahem! Eureka!"

  And THE MORAL (lest you miss one)
    Is: There's often time to spare,
  And that races are (like this one)
    Won not always by a hair.



      THE PATRICIAN PEACOCKS

                AND

       THE OVERWEENING JAY

  Once a flock of stately peacocks
    Promenaded on a green,
  There were twenty-two or three cocks,
    Each as proud as seventeen,
  And a glance, however hasty,
    Showed their plumage to be tasty;
  Wheresoever one was placed, he
    Was a credit to the scene.

  Now their owner had a daughter
    Who, when people came to call,
  Used to say, "You'd reelly oughter
    See them peacocks on the mall."
  Now this wasn't to her credit,
    And her callers came to dread it,
  For the way the lady said it
    Wasn't _recherche_ at all.

  But a jay that overheard it
    From his perch upon a fir
  Didn't take in how absurd it
    Was to every one but her;
  When they answered, "You don't tell us!"
    And to see the birds seemed zealous
  He became extremely jealous,
    Wishing, too, to make a stir.

  As the peacocks fed together
    He would join them at their lunch,
  Culling here and there a feather
    Till he'd gathered quite a bunch;
  Then this bird, of ways perfidious,
    Stuck them on him most fastidious
  Till he looked uncommon hideous,
    Like a Judy or a Punch.

  But the peacocks, when they saw him,
    One and all began to haul,
  And to harry and to claw him
    Till the creature couldn't crawl;
  While their owner's vulgar daughter,
    When her startled callers sought her,
  And to see the struggle brought her,
    Only said, "They're on the maul."

  It was really quite revolting
    When the tumult died away,
  One would think he had been moulting
    So dishevelled was the jay;
  He was more than merely slighted,
    He was more than disunited,
  He'd been simply dynamited
    In the fervor of the fray.

  And THE MORAL of the verses
    Is: That short men can't be tall.
  Nothing sillier or worse is
    Than a jay upon a mall.
  And the jay opiniative
    Who, because he's imitative,
  Thinks he's highly decorative
    Is the biggest jay of all.




       THE ARROGANT FROG

               AND

       THE SUPERIOR BULL

  Once, on a time and in a place
    Conducive to malaria,
  There lived a member of the race
    Of _Rana Temporaria_;
      Or, more concisely still, a frog
      Inhabited a certain bog.

  A bull of Brobdingnagian size,
    Too proud for condescension,
  One morning chanced to cast his eyes
    Upon the frog I mention;
      And, being to the manner born,
      Surveyed him with a lofty scorn.

  Perceiving this, the bactrian's frame
    With anger was inflated,
  Till, growing larger, he became
    Egregiously elated;
      For inspiration's sudden spell
      Had pointed out a way to swell.

  "Ha! ha!" he proudly cried, "a fig
    For this, your mammoth torso!
  Just watch me while I grow as big
    As you--or even more so!"
      To which magniloquential gush
      His bullship simply answered "Tush!"

  Alas! the frog's success was slight,
    Which really was a wonder,
  In view of how with main and might
    He strove to grow rotunder!
      And, standing patiently the while,
      The bull displayed a quiet smile.

[Illustration: "HE STROVE TO GROW ROTUNDER"]

  But ah, the frog tried once too oft
    And, doing so, he busted;
  Whereat the bull discreetly coughed
    And moved away, disgusted,
      As well he might, considering
      The wretched taste that marked the thing.

      THE MORAL: Everybody knows
      How ill a wind it is that blows.




      THE DOMINEERING EAGLE

               AND

     THE INVENTIVE BRATLING

  O'er a small suburban borough
    Once an eagle used to fly,
  Making observations thorough
    From his station in the sky,
  And presenting the appearance
    Of an animated V,
  Like the gulls that lend coherence
    Unto paintings of the sea.

  Looking downward at a church in
    This attractive little shire,
  He beheld a smallish urchin
    Shooting arrows at the spire;
  In a spirit of derision,
    "Look alive!" the eagle said;
  And, with infinite precision,
    Dropped a feather on his head.

  Then the boy, annoyed distinctly
    By the freedom of the bird,
  Voiced his anger quite succinctly
    In a single scathing word;
  And he sat him on a barrow,
    And he fashioned of this same
  Eagle's feather such an arrow
    As was worthy of the name.

  Then he tried his bow, and, stringing
    It with caution and with care,
  Sent that arrow singing, winging
    Towards the eagle in the air.
  Straight it went, without an error,
    And the target, bathed in blood,
  Lurched, and lunged, and fell to _terra
    Firma_, landing with a thud.

  "Bird of freedom," quoth the urchin,
    With an unrelenting frown,
  "You shall decorate a perch in
    The menagerie in town;
  But of feathers quite a cluster
    I shall first remove for Ma:
  Thanks to you, she'll have a duster
    For her precious _objets d'art_."

  And THE MORAL is that pride is
    The precursor of a fall.
  Those beneath you to deride is
    Not expedient at all.
  Howsoever meek and humble
    Your inferiors may be,
  They perchance may make you tumble,
    So respect them.  Q. E. D.




      THE ICONOCLASTIC RUSTIC

                AND

        THE APROPOS ACORN

  Reposing 'neath some spreading trees,
    A populistic bumpkin
  Amused himself by offering these
    Reflections on a pumpkin:
  "I would not, if the choice were mine,
  Grow things like that upon a vine,
  For how imposing it would be
  If pumpkins grew upon a tree."

  Like other populists, you'll note,
    Of views enthusiastic,
  He'd learned by heart, and said by rote
    A creed iconoclastic;
  And in his dim, uncertain sight
  Whatever wasn't must be right,
  From which it follows he had strong
  Convictions that what was, was wrong.

  As thus he sat beneath an oak
    An acorn fell abruptly
  And smote his nose: whereat he spoke
    Of acorns most corruptly.
  "Great Scott!" he cried. "The Dickens!" too,
  And other authors whom he knew,
  And having duly mentioned those,
  He expeditiously arose.

  Then, though with pain he nearly swooned,
    He bathed his organ nasal
  With arnica, and soothed the wound
    With extract of witch hazel;
  And surely we may well excuse
  The victim if he changed his views:
  "If pumpkins fell from trees like that,"
  He murmured, "Where would I be at?"

  Of course it's wholly clear to you
    That when these words he uttered
  He proved conclusively he knew
    Which side his bread was buttered;
  And, if this point you have not missed,
  You'll learn to love this populist,
  The only one of all his kind
  With sense enough to change his mind.

  THE MORAL: In the early spring
  A pumpkin-tree would be a thing
  Most gratifying to us all,
  But how about the early fall?




        THE UNUSUAL GOOSE

               AND

     THE IMBECILIC WOODCUTTER

  A woodcutter bought him a gander,
    Or at least that was what he supposed,
  As a matter of fact, 'twas a slander
    As a later occurrence disclosed;
  For they locked the bird up in the garret
    To fatten, the while it grew old,
  And it laid there a twenty-two carat
    Fine egg of the purest of gold!

  There was much unaffected rejoicing
    In the home of the woodcutter then,
  And his wife, her exuberance voicing,
    Proclaimed him most lucky of men.
  "'Tis an omen of fortune, this gold egg,"
    She said, "and of practical use,
  For this fowl doesn't lay any old egg,
    She's a highly superior goose."

  Twas this creature's habitual custom,
    This laying of superfine eggs,
  And they made it their practice to dust 'em
    And pack them by dozens in kegs:
  But the woodcutter's mind being vapid
    And his foolishness more than profuse,
  In order to get them more rapid
    He slaughtered the innocent goose.

  He made her a gruel of acid
    Which she very obligingly ate,
  And at once with a touchingly placid
    Demeanor succumbed to her fate.
  With affection that passed the platonic
    They buried her under the moss,
  And her epitaph wasn't ironic
    In stating, "We mourn for our loss."

  And THE MORAL: It isn't much use,
    As the woodcutter found to be true,
  To lay for an innocent goose
    Just because she is laying for you.




           THE RUDE RAT

               AND

      THE UNOSTENTATIOUS OYSTER

  Upon the shore, a mile or more
    From traffic and confusion,
  An oyster dwelt, because he felt
    A longing for seclusion;
  Said he: "I love the stillness of
    This spot. It's like a cloister."
  (These words I quote because, you note,
    They rhyme so well with oyster.)

  A prying rat, believing that
    She needed change of diet,
  In search of such disturbed this much-
    To-be-desired quiet.
  To say the least, this tactless beast
    Was apt to rudely roister:
  She tapped his shell, and called him--well,
    A name that hurt the oyster.

  "I see," she cried, "you're open wide,
    And, searching for a reason,
  September's here, and so it's clear
    That oysters are in season."
  She smiled a smile that showed this style
    Of badinage rejoiced her,
  Advanced a pace with easy grace,
    And _sniffed_ the silent oyster.

  The latter's pride was sorely tried,
    He thought of what he _could _say,
  Reflected what the common lot
    Of vulgar molluscs _would_ say;
  Then caught his breath, grew pale as death,
    And, as his brow turned moister,
  Began to close, and nipped her nose!
    Superb, dramatic oyster!

  We note with joy that oi polloi,
    Whom maidens bite the thumb at,
  Are apt to try some weak reply
    To things they should be dumb at.
  THE MORAL, then, for crafty men
    Is: When a maid has voiced her
  Contemptuous heart, don't think you're smart,
    But shut up--like the oyster.




            THE URBAN RAT

               AND

           THE SUBURBAN RAT

  A metropolitan rat invited
    His country cousin in town to dine:
  The country cousin replied, "Delighted."
    And signed himself, "Sincerely thine."
  The town rat treated the country cousin
                       To half a dozen
                         Kinds of wine.

  He served him terrapin, kidneys devilled,
    And roasted partridge, and candied fruit;
  In Little Neck Clams at first they revelled,
    And then in Pommery,  _sec_ and _brut_;
  The country cousin exclaimed: "Such feeding
                       Proclaims your breeding
                         Beyond dispute!"

  But just as, another bottle broaching,
    They came to chicken _en casserole_
  A ravenous cat was heard approaching,
    And, passing his guest a finger-bowl,
  The town rat murmured, "The feast is ended."
                      And then descended
                        The nearest hole.

  His cousin followed him, helter-skelter,
    And, pausing beneath the pantry floor,
  He glanced around at their dusty shelter
    And muttered, "This is a beastly bore.
  My place as an epicure resigning,
                      I'll try this dining
                        In town no more.

  "You must dine some night at my rustic cottage;
    I'll warn you now that it's simple fare:
  A radish or two, a bowl of pottage,
    And the wine that's known as _ordinaire_,
  But for holes I haven't to make a bee-line,
                       No prowling feline
                         Molests me there.

  "You smile at the lot of a mere commuter,
    You think that my life is hard, mayhap,
  But I'm sure than you I am far acuter:
    I ain't afraid of no cat nor trap."
  The city rat could but meekly stammer,
                       "Don't use such grammar,
                         My worthy chap."

  He dined next night with his poor relation,
    And caught dyspepsia, and lost his train,
  He waited an hour in the lonely station,
    And said some things that were quite profane.
  "I'll never," he cried, in tones complaining,
                        "Try entertaining
                          That rat again."

  It's easy to make a memorandum
    About THE MORAL these verses teach:
    _De gustibus non est disputandum;_
    The meaning of which Etruscan speech
  Is wheresoever you're hunger quelling
                      Pray keep your dwelling
                      In easy reach.




      THE IMPECUNIOUS CRICKET

               AND

          THE FRUGAL ANT

  There was an ant, a spinster ant,
    Whose virtues were so many
  That she became intolerant
    Of those who hadn't any:
  She had a small and frugal mind
    And lived a life ascetic,
  Nor was her temperament the kind
    That's known as sympathetic.

  I skip details. Suffice to say
    That, knocking at her wicket,
  There chanced to come one autumn day
    A common garden cricket
  So ragged, poor, and needy that,
    Without elucidation,
  One saw the symptoms of a bat
    Of several months' duration.

  He paused beside her door-step, and,
    With one pathetic gesture,
  He called attention with his hand
    To both his shoes and vesture.
  "I joined," said he, "an opera troupe.
    They suddenly disbanded,
  And left me on the hostel stoop,
    Lugubriously stranded.

  "I therefore lay aside my pride
    And frankly ask for clothing."
  "Begone!" the frugal ant replied.
    "I look on you with loathing.
  Your muddy shoes have spoiled the lawn,
    Your hands have soiled the fence, too.
  If you need money, go and pawn
    Your watch--if you have sense to."

  THE MORAL is: Albeit lots
  Of people follow Dr. Watts,
  The sluggard, when his means are scant,
  Should seek an uncle, not an ant!




        THE PAMPERED LAPDOG

               AND

         THE MISGUIDED ASS

  A woolly little terrier pup
    Gave vent to yelps distressing,
  Whereat his mistress took him up
    And soothed him with caressing,
      And yet he was not in the least
      What one would call a handsome beast.

  He might have been a Javanese,
    He might have been a Jap dog,
  And also neither one of these,
    But just a common lapdog,
      The kind that people send, you know,
      Done up in cotton, to the Show.

  At all events, whate'er his race,
    The pretty girl who owned him
  Caressed his unattractive face
    And petted and cologned him,
      While, watching her with mournful eye,
      A patient ass stood silent by.

  "If thus," he mused, "the feminine
    And fascinating gender
  Is led to love, I, too, can win
    Her protestations tender."
      And then the poor, misguided chap
      Sat down upon the lady's lap.

  Then, as her head with terror swam,
    "This method seems to suit you,"
  Observed the ass, "so here I am."
    Said she, "Get up, you brute you!"
      And promptly screamed aloud for aid:
      No ass was ever more dismayed.

[Illustration: "SAID SHE, 'GET UP, YOU BRUTE YOU!'"]

  They took the ass into the yard
    And there, with whip and truncheon,
  They beat him, and they beat him hard,
    From breakfast-time till luncheon.
      He only gave a tearful gulp,
      Though almost pounded to a pulp.

  THE MORAL is (or seems, at least,
    To be): In etiquette you
  Will find that while enough's a feast
    A surplus will upset you.
   _Toujours, toujours la politesse_, if
      The quantity be not excessive.





        THE VAINGLORIOUS OAK

               AND

         THE MODEST BULRUSH

  A bulrush stood on a river's rim,
    And an oak that grew near by
  Looked down with cold _hauteur_ on him,
    And addressed him this way: "Hi!"
  The rush was a proud patrician, and
   He retorted, "Don't you know,
  What the veriest boor should understand,
              That 'Hi' is low?"

  This cutting rebuke the oak ignored.
    He returned, "My slender friend,
  I will frankly state that I'm somewhat bored
    With the way you bow and bend."
  "But you quite forget," the rush replied,
    "It's an art these bows to do,
  An art I wouldn't attempt if I'd
               Such boughs as you."

  "Of course," said the oak, "in my sapling days
    My habit it was to bow,
  But the wildest storm that the winds could raise
    Would never disturb me now.
  I challenge the breeze to make me bend,
    And the blast to make me sway."
  The shrewd little bulrush answered, "Friend,
                Don't get so gay."

  And the words had barely left his mouth
    When he saw the oak turn pale,
  For, racing along south-east-by-south,
    Came ripping a raging gale.
  And the rush bent low as the storm went past,
    But stiffly stood the oak,
  Though not for long, for he found the blast
                No idle joke.

    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *

  Imagine the lightning's gleaming bars,
    Imagine the thunder's roar,
  For that is exactly what eight stars
    Are set in a row here for!
  The oak lay prone when the storm was done,
    While the rush, still quite erect,
  Remarked aside, "What under the sun
               Could one expect?"

  And THE MORAL, I'd have you understand,
    Would have made La Fontaine blush,
  For it's this: Some storms come early, and
               Avoid the rush!




             THE INHUMAN WOLF

                  AND

           THE LAMB SANS GENE

  A gaunt and relentless wolf, possessed
    Of a quite insatiable thirst,
  Once paused at a stream to drink and rest,
  And found that, bound on a similar quest,
    A lamb had arrived there first.

  The lamb was a lamb of a garrulous mind
    And frivolity most extreme:
  In the fashion common to all his kind,
  He cantered in front and galloped behind.
    And troubled the limpid stream.

  "My friend," said the wolf, with a winsome air,
    "Your capers I can't admire."
  "Go to!" quoth the lamb. (Though he said not where,
  He showed what he meant by his brazen stare
    And the way that he gambolled higher.)

  "My capers," he cried, "are the kind that are
    Invariably served with lamb.
  Remember, this is a public bar,
  And I'll do as I please. If your drink I mar,
    I don't give a tinker's ----."

  He paused and glanced at the rivulet,
    And that pause than speech was worse,
  For his roving eye a saw-mill met,
  And, near it, the word which should be set
    At the end of the previous verse.

  Said the wolf: "You are tough and may bring remorse,
    But of such is the world well rid.
  I've swallowed your capers, I've swallowed your sauce,
  And it's plain to be seen that my only course
    Is swallowing you."  He did.

  THE MORAL: The wisest lambs they are
    Who, when they're assailed by thirst,
  Keep well away from a public bar;
  For of all black sheep, or near, or far,
    The public bar-lamb's worst!




         THE SYCOPHANTIC FOX

                 AND

          THE GULLIBLE RAVEN

  A raven sat upon a tree,
    And not a word he spoke, for
  His beak contained a piece of Brie,
    Or, maybe, it was Roquefort:
      We'll make it any kind you please--
      At all events, it was a cheese.

  Beneath the tree's umbrageous limb
    A hungry fox sat smiling;
  He saw the raven watching him,
    And spoke in words beguiling.
      "_J'admire_," said he, "_ton beau plumage_."
      (The which was simply persiflage.)

  Two things there are, no doubt you know,
    To which a fox is used:
  A rooster that is bound to crow,
    A crow that's bound to roost,
      And whichsoever he espies
     He tells the most unblushing lies.

  "Sweet fowl," he said, "I understand
    You're more than merely natty,
  I hear you sing to beat the band
    And Adelina Patti.
      Pray render with your liquid tongue
      A bit from 'Gotterdammerung.'"

  This subtle speech was aimed to please
    The crow, and it succeeded:
  He thought no bird in all the trees
    Could sing as well as he did.
      In flattery completely doused,
      He gave the "Jewel Song" from "Faust."

[Illustration: "'_J'ADMIRE_,' SAID HE, '_TON BEAU PLUMAGE_'"]

  But gravitation's law, of course,
    As Isaac Newton showed it,
  Exerted on the cheese its force,
    And elsewhere soon bestowed it.
      In fact, there is no need to tell
      What happened when to earth it fell.

  I blush to add that when the bird
    Took in the situation
  He said one brief, emphatic word,
    Unfit for publication.
      The fox was greatly startled, but
      He only sighed and answered "Tut."

  THE MORAL is: A fox is bound
    To be a shameless sinner.
  And also: When the cheese comes round
    You know it's after dinner.
      But (what is only known to few)
      The fox is after dinner, too.




        THE MICROSCOPIC TROUT

               AND

      THE MACHIAVELIAN FISHERMAN

  A fisher was casting his flies in a brook,
    According to laws of such sciences,
  With a patented reel and a patented hook
    And a number of other appliances;
  And the thirty-fifth cast, which he vowed was the last
    (It was figured as close as a decimal),
  Brought suddenly out of the water a trout
    Of measurements infinitesimal.

  This fish had a way that would win him a place
    In the best and most polished society,
  And he looked at the fisherman full in the face
    With a visible air of anxiety:
  He murmered "Alas!" from his place in the grass,
    And then, when he'd twisted and wriggled, he
  Remarked in a pet that his heart was upset
    And digestion all higgledy-piggledy.

  "I request," he observed, "to be instantly flung
    Once again in the pool I've been living in."
  The fisherman said, "You will tire out your tongue.
    Do you see any signs of my giving in?
  Put you back in the pool? Why, you fatuous fool,
    I have eaten much smaller and thinner fish.
  You're not salmon or sole, but I think, on the whole,
    You're a fairly respectable dinner-fish."

  The fisherman's cook tried her hand on the trout
    And with various herbs she embellished him;
  He was lovely to see, and there isn't a doubt
    That the fisherman's family relished him,
  And, to prove that they did, both his wife and his kid
    Devoured the trout with much eagerness,
  Avowing no dish could compare with that fish,
    Notwithstanding his singular meagreness.

  And THE MORAL, you'll find, is although it is kind
    To grant favors that people are wishing for,
  Still a dinner you'll lack if you chance to throw back
    In the pool little trout that you're fishing for;
  If their pleading you spurn you will certainly learn
    That herbs will deliciously vary 'em:
  It is needless to state that a trout on a plate
    Beats several in the aquarium.




       THE CONFIDING PEASANT

               AND

         THE MALADROIT BEAR

  A peasant had a docile bear,
    A bear of manners pleasant,
  And all the love she had to spare
    She lavished on the peasant:
      She proved her deep affection plainly
      (The method was a bit ungainly).

  The peasant had to dig and delve,
    And, as his class are apt to,
  When all the whistles blew at twelve
    He ate his lunch, and napped, too,
      The bear a careful outlook keeping
      The while her master lay a-sleeping.

  As thus the peasant slept one day,
    The weather being torrid,
  A gnat beheld him where he lay
    And lit upon his forehead,
      And thence, like all such winged creatures,
      Proceeded over all his features.

  The watchful bear, perceiving that
    The gnat lit on her master,
  Resolved to light upon the gnat
    And plunge him in disaster;
      She saw no sense in being lenient
      When stones lay round her, most convenient.

  And so a weighty rock she aimed
    With much enthusiasm:
  "Oh, lor'!" the startled gnat exclaimed,
    And promptly had a spasm:
      A natural proceeding this was,
      Considering how close the miss was.

[Illustration: AND SO A WEIGHTY ROCK SHE AIMED]

  Now by his dumb companion's pluck,
    Which caused the gnat to squall so,
  The sleeping man was greatly struck
    (And by the bowlder, also).
      In fact, his friends who idolized him
      Remarked they hardly recognized him.

  Of course the bear was greatly grieved,
    But, being just a dumb thing,
  She only thought: "I was deceived,
    But still, I did hit _something!_"
      Which showed this masculine achievement
      Had somewhat soothed her deep bereavement.

  THE MORAL: If you prize your bones
  Beware of females throwing stones.




       THE   PRECIPITATE   COCK

               AND

      THE   UNAPPRECIATED   PEARL

  A rooster once pursued a worm
    That lingered not to brave him,
  To see his wretched victim squirm
    A pleasant thrill it gave him;
  He summoned all his kith and kin,
    They hastened up by legions,
  With quaint, expressive gurgles in
    Their oesophageal regions.

  Just then a kind of glimmering
    Attracting his attention,
  The worm became too small a thing
    For more than passing mention:
  The throng of hungry hens and rude
    He skilfully evaded.
  Said he, "I' faith, if this be food,
    I saw the prize ere they did."

  It was a large and costly pearl,
    Belonging in a necklace,
  And dropped by some neglectful girl:
    Some people are so reckless!
  The cock assumed an air forlorn,
    And cried, "It's really cruel.
  I thought it was a grain of corn:
    It's nothing but a jewel."

  He turned again to where his clan
    In one astounding tangle
  With eager haste together ran
    To slay the helpless angle,
  And sighed, "He was of massive size.
    I should have used discretion.
  Too late! Around the toothsome prize
    A bargain-sale's in session."

  The worm's remarks upon his plight
    Have never been recorded,
  But any one may know how slight
    Diversion it afforded;
  For worms and human beings are
    Unanimous that, when pecked,
  To be the prey of men they far
    Prefer to being hen-pecked.

  THE MORAL: When your dinner comes
    Don't leave it for your neighbors,
  Because you hear the sound of drums
    And see the gleam of sabres;
  Or, like the cock, you'll find too late
    That ornaments external
  Do not for certain indicate
    A bona fide kernel.




       THE ABBREVIATED FOX

               AND

      HIS SCEPTICAL COMRADES

  A certain fox had a Grecian nose
    And a beautiful tail. His friends
  Were wont to say in a jesting way
    A divinity shaped his ends.
  The fact is sad, but his foxship had
    A fault we should all eschew:
  He was so deceived that he quite believed
    What he heard from friends was true.

  One day he found in a sheltered spot
    A trap with stalwart springs
  That was cunningly planned to supply the demand
   For some of those tippet things.
  The fox drew nigh, and resolved to try
    The way that the trap was set:
  (When the trap was through with this interview
    There was one less tippet to get!)

  The fox returned to his doting friends
    And said, with an awkward smile,
  "My tail I know was _comme il faut_,
    And served me well for a while."
  When his comrades laughed at his shortage aft
    He added, with scornful bow,
  "Pray check your mirth, for I hear from Worth
    They're wearing them shorter now."

  But one of his friends, a bookish chap,
    Replied, with a thoughtful frown,
  "You know to-day the publishers say
    That the short tale won't go down;
  And, upon my soul, I think on the whole,
   That the publishers' words are true.
  I should hate, good sir, to part my fur
    In the middle, as done by you."

  And another added these truthful words
    In the midst of the eager hush,
  "We can part our hair 'most anywhere
    So long as we keep the brush."

  THE MORAL is this: It is never amiss
    To treasure the things you've penned:
  Preserve your tales, for, when all else fails,
    They'll be useful things--in the end.




     THE HOSPITABLE CALEDONIAN

               AND

        THE THANKLESS VIPER

  A Caledonian piper
    Who was walking on the wold
  Nearly stepped upon a viper
    Rendered torpid by the cold;
  By the sight of her admonished,
    He forbore to plant his boot,
  But he showed he was astonished
    By the way he muttered "Hoot!"

  Now this simple-minded piper
    Such a kindly nature had
  That he lifted up the viper
    And bestowed her in his plaid.
  "Though the Scot is stern, at least he
    No unhappy creature spurns,
  'Sleekit, cowrin, tim'rous beastie,'"
    Quoth the piper (quoting Burns).

  This was unaffected kindness,
    But there was, to state the fact,
  Just a slight _soupcon_ of blindness
    In his charitable act.
  If you'd watched the piper, shortly
    You'd have seen him leap aloft,
  As this snake, of ways uncourtly,
    Bit him suddenly and oft.

  There was really no excuse for
    This, the viper's cruel work,
  And the piper found a use for
    Words he'd never learned at kirk;
  But the biting was so thorough
    That although the doctors tried,
  Not the best in Edinburgh
    Could assist him, and he died.

  And THE MORAL is: The piper
    Of the matter made a botch;
  One can hardly blame the viper
    If she took a nip of Scotch,
  For she only did what he did,
    And _his_ nippie wasn't small,
  Otherwise, you see, he needed
    Not have seen the snake at all.




       THE IMPETUOUS BREEZE

               AND

        THE DIPLOMATIC SUN

  A Boston man an ulster had,
    An ulster with a cape that fluttered:
  It smacked his face, and made him mad,
    And polyglot remarks he uttered:
      "I bought it at a bargain," said he,
      "I'm tired of the thing already."

  The wind that chanced to blow that day
    Was easterly, and rather strong, too:
  It loved to see the galling way
    That clothes vex those whom they belong to:
      "Now watch me," cried this spell of weather,
      "I'll rid him of it altogether."

  It whirled the man across the street,
    It banged him up against a railing,
  It twined the ulster round his feet,
    But all of this was unavailing:
      For not without resource it found him:
      He drew the ulster closer round him.

  "My word!" the man was heard to say,
    "Although I like not such abuse, it's
  Not strange the wind is strong to-day,
    It always is in Massachusetts.
      Such weather threatens much the health of
      Inhabitants this Commonwealth of."

  The sun, emerging from a rift
    Between the clouds, observed the victim,
  And how the wind beset and biffed,
    Belabored, buffeted, and kicked him.
      Said he, "This wind is doubtless new here:
      'Tis quite the freshest ever blew here."

  And then he put forth all his strength,
    His warmth with might and main exerted,
  Till upward in its tube at length
    The mercury most nimbly spurted.
      Phenomenal the curious sight was,
      So swift the rise in Fahrenheit was.

  The man supposed himself at first
    The prey of some new mode of smelting:
  His pulses were about to burst,
    His every limb seemed slowly melting,
      And, as the heat began to numb him,
      He cast the ulster wildly from him.

  "Impulsive breeze, the use of force,"
    Observed the sun, "a foolish act is,
  Perceiving which, you see, of course.
    How highly efficacious tact is."
      The wondering wind replied, "Good gracious!
      You're right about the efficacious."

  THE MORAL deals, as morals do,
    With tact, and all its virtues boasted,
  But still I can't forget, can you,
    That wretched man, first chilled, then roasted?
      Bronchitis seized him shortly after,
      And that's no cause for vulgar laughter.




                  THE END









End of Project Gutenberg's Fables for the Frivolous, by Guy Whitmore Carryl

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FABLES FOR THE FRIVOLOUS ***

***** This file should be named 6438.txt or 6438.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/3/6438/

Produced by Steve Schulze, Charles Franks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team. The scans for this book are
from the Michigan State University Online Digital Collection
http://digital.lib.msu.edu/onlinecolls/collection.cfm?CID=3


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
