Canelli et al. Virology Journal 2010, 7:64
http://www.virologyj.com/content/7/1/64

CASE REPORT

Open Access

Encephalomyocarditis virus infection in an Italian
zoo
Elena Canelli1*, Andrea Luppi1, Antonio Lavazza1, Davide Lelli1, Enrica Sozzi1, Ana M Moreno Martin1,
Daniela Gelmetti1, Ernesto Pascotto3, Camillo Sandri2, William Magnone2, Paolo Cordioli1

Abstract
A fatal Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) infection epidemic involving fifteen primates occurred between October
2006 and February 2007 at the Natura Viva Zoo. This large open-field zoo park located near Lake Garda in Northern
Italy hosts one thousand animals belonging to one hundred and fifty different species, including various lemur
species. This lemur collection is the most relevant and rich in Italy. A second outbreak between September and
November 2008 involved three lemurs. In all cases, the clinical signs were sudden deaths generally without any
evident symptoms or only with mild unspecific clinical signs. Gross pathologic changes were characterized by
myocarditis (diffuse or focal pallor of the myocardium), pulmonary congestion, emphysema, oedema and thoracic
fluid. The EMCV was isolated and recognized as the causative agent of both outbreaks. The first outbreak in particular was associated with a rodent plague, confirming that rats are an important risk factor for the occurrence of
the EMCV infection.
Background
Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) is a single stranded
Cardiovirus belonging to the Picornaviridae family. It is
spread worldwide and it is recognized as a pathogen
found mainly in pigs but also in non-human primates
and in a variety of domestic, captive, non-domestic and
wild animals. Several outbreaks of fatal EMCV infections
have been described in zoos in Australia and the USA
[1-5]. Rodents and in particular rats and mice are
usually considered the natural host and reservoir of this
virus. They are suspected of contaminating feed or
water, through which the infection spreads to susceptible animals.
EMCV can cross the species barrier, as demonstrated
in some zoo outbreaks involving multiple animal species
[4,5]. Recently, the interest in this virus has increased
because of possible pig-to-human transmission by xenotransplantation. Until today, human cases have been fortunately very rare [6] and although the infection is possible the risk appears to be almost negligible.
This report describes an EMCV infection occurred in
non-human primates housed in an Italian zoo.
* Correspondence: elena.canelli@izsler.it
1
Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale della Lombardia e dell’Emilia Romagna
“B Ubertini” (IZSLER), Via Bianchi, 7/9 - 25124 Brescia, Italy

Specifically two outbreaks are described from a clinical,
anatomopathological and diagnostic point of view.

Case presentation
Outbreaks

The Parco Natura Viva zoo in Bussolengo (Verona,
Italy) houses one thousand animals belonging to one
hundred and fifty different species including various primates and it hosts the most relevant captive lemur
population in Italy. The first outbreak occurred between
October 2006 and February 2007, when fifteen primates
out of a total of ninety-six (15.6% morbidity) and
belonging to six different species died: one black lemur
(Eulemur macaco macaco), three ring-tailed lemurs
(Lemur catta), three red-ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata rubra), two white-fronted lemurs (Eulemur albifrons), four barbary macaques (Macaca sylvanus) and
two common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). All lemurs
(forty-two animals) were housed in big hutches, one for
each species, all situated in the same area of the Park;
the common marmosets (two animals) were housed in a
hutch within a greenhouse, while the twenty-five barbary macaques (Macaca sylvanus) were housed in a separated hutch on small island located in front of the
greenhouse and about 200 meters far from the lemurs.
The fifteen primates mentioned before died without any

© 2010 Canelli et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in
any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

Canelli et al. Virology Journal 2010, 7:64
http://www.virologyj.com/content/7/1/64

Page 2 of 7

clear apparent predictive symptoms or only with mild
unspecific clinical signs. Indeed, the clinical course was
very rapid in most cases, which were described by the
zoo’s veterinarian as sudden asymptomatic deaths.
There were only certain cases, which started with
lethargy, decreased activity, weakness and malaise,
which then caused death after 12-24 hours.

A second outbreak occurred between September and
November 2008, involving three red-ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata rubra). More details on the animals
involved during the two outbreaks are shown in table 1.
Animals belonging to other species were not affected
by these symptoms neither was abnormal mortality
detected.

Table 1 Clinical and pathological findings during the two outbreaks.
Species

Sex

Death
date

Clinical signs

Gross pathology

EMCV investigation
results

Lemur catta

n.r. °

15-10-06

Lemur catta

m

20-10-06

Sudden death

No gross lesions were observed

Pos

Lack of
coordination

Pericardic haemorrhages, pulmonary emphysema and oedema,
meningeal congestion

Pos

Lemur catta

m

4-11-06

Sudden death

Sero-haemorrhagic thoracic fluid, pulmonary oedema, catharral enteritis,
pericardic haemorrhages, cardiomegaly, whitish necrotic foci, pulmonary
emphysema, ascites, abdominal organs congestion, mild liver hyperaemia,
meningeal congestion

Pos

Eulemur
macaco
macaco

m

17-11-06

Anorexia,
sensory
depression

Very severe pulmonary oedema

Pos

Eulemur
albifrons

m

27-11-06

Sudden death

Diffuse pulmonary edema, sero-haemorrhagic thoracic fluid, pericardic
haemorrhages, pulmonary emphysema, meningeal congestion, catharral
enteritis

Pos

Eulemur
albifrons

m

16-12-06

Lethargy,
sensory
depression

Thoracic fluid, severe pulmonary edema, cardiomegaly, presence of
nematodes (Trichuris spp.) in the stomach, sero-haemorrhagic thoracic fluid,
pericardic haemorrhages, pulmonary emphysema, meningeal congestion

Pos

Macaca
sylvanus

m

27-12-06

Sudden death

Mild pulmonary oedema

Pos

Varecia
variegata
rubra

n.r.

27-12-06

Sudden death

Mild pulmonary oedema, evident cardiomegaly and grey-white necrotic
foci of the myocardium

Pos

Macaca
sylvanus

n.r.

30-12-06

Sudden death

Necrosis of the posterior fingers and partial necrosis of anterior fingers,
marginal lobular pulmonary haemorrhages, evident cardiomegaly,
abundant hydropericardium

Neg

Macaca
sylvanus

n.r.

05-01-07

Sudden death

No gross lesions were observed

Pos

Callithrix
jacchus

m

16-01-07

Sudden death Lymphomegaly, kidney pallor, epathomegaly, cardiomegaly and grey-white
necrotic foci of the myocardium, pulmonary oedema, ascite

Pos

Callithrix
jacchus

f

19-01-07

Sudden death

Mild pulmonary oedema

Neg

Varecia
variegata
rubra

f

21-01-07

Sudden death

Thoracic fluid, evident pulmonary oedema, cardiomegaly and grey-white
necrotic foci of the myocardium

Pos

Varecia
variegata
rubra

n.r.

02-02-07

Sudden death

Mild pulmonary oedema and grey-white necrotic foci of the myocardium

Pos

Macaca
sylvanus

n.r.

07-02-07

Sudden death

Catharral enteritis, presence of nematodes (Strongiloides spp.) in the small
intestine

Pos

Varecia
variegata
rubra

m

23-09-08

Sudden death

Pulmonary oedema and grey-white necrotic foci of the myocardium

Pos

Varecia
variegata
rubra

m

04-11-08

Sensory
depression

Pulmonary oedema and grey-white necrotic foci of the myocardium

Pos

Varecia
variegata
rubra

f

06-11-08

Sudden death

Pulmonary oedema and grey-white necrotic foci of the myocardium

pos

°n.r. = not reported

Canelli et al. Virology Journal 2010, 7:64
http://www.virologyj.com/content/7/1/64

Epidemiological and Diagnostic investigations

The epidemiological investigation was done in order to
find out the causes of the introduction and the spreading of EMCV in the Park.
In all cases, necropsy was performed and selected
internal organs were sampled and submitted for parasitological, bacteriological, virological, histopathological
and toxicological examinations.
The copro-parasitological analysis was made on intestinal content using standard qualitative methods (sedimentation and floatation). Bacteriological exams were
performed on lungs, small and gross intestines, kidneys,
liver, brain and spleen following a standardized protocol.
Toxicological examination was focused on detecting
rodenticidals in liver and gastric content samples.
For the virological examinations lungs, spleen, brain
and heart were homogenized in minimal essential medium (MEM) (1 g/10 ml) containing antibiotics and clarified by centrifugation. The supernatants of organ
homogenates were separately inoculated on VERO (African green monkey kidney cells) and BHK21 (baby hamster kidney) cells. The presence and identification of
EMCV particles in cell culture lysates was found using
both a MAbs-based sandwich ELISA produced by IZSLER [7] and a negative staining immuno-electron-microscopy using the Airfuge method and employing a
positive reference serum produced by IZSLER (Novara
86 strain). The grids were stained with 2% NaPT, pH
6,8 and examined with a TEM Philips CM10 operating
at 80 kV.
For the histopathology, portions of myocardium,
lungs, small and large intestine, kidney, liver, pancreas,
spleen and brain were fixed in 10% buffered formalin
and 5 μm-thick paraffin-embedded sections were
obtained and stained with haematoxylin-eosin. Immunohistochemistry was performed only on samples those
showed histological lesions, using the monoclonal antibody (MAb) 3E5 produced by IZSLER laboratories specific for EMCV in a biotin-streptavidin staining method.
Nine sera, some previously collected by zoo veterinarians for routinely laboratory investigations and others
from different lemurs survived to the outbreaks, were
tested also for EMCV antibodies using a competitive
ELISA [7]. Specifically, these sera were collected from
nine different animals: before the outbreaks on 28/01/06
(n° 1 serum) and 15/02/06 (n° 1); after the first outbreak
on 18/02/2008 (n° 1), 08/2008 (n° 2) and 30/10/2008 (n°
1) and after the second outbreak on 01/2009 (n° 2) and
15/02/2009 (n° 1). In order to avoid unnecessary stress
to animals it was decided to limit the serological investigation for EMCV antibodies only to these sera.
After identifying the EMCV (see below) and considering that rodents are an important risk factor for EMCV
infection, a rodent control was made for all areas used

Page 3 of 7

for animal food storage and preparation to avoid any
possible contact between rodent feces and food. Ten
rats were also captured in the immediate area of the
lemur enclosure and immediately sacrificed. It was
impossible to take blood for serological investigations.
Samples of brain, liver, spleen, heart, intestine and urine
were tested separately using cell cultures (VERO and
BHK21).

Results and Discussion
The epidemiological investigation showed two important
findings. The first one was the increased number of rats
in the Park. For this reason, a supplementary rat control
program was in progress during the first outbreak,
although a rat disinfection program was normally
applied in the Zoo. The second point was relative to the
15 primates involved in the outbreak. As a matter of
fact they was fed with the same food and attended by
the same zookeeper. These results could suggest a possible EMCV introduction and spreading directly by rats
and indirectly by food and fomites contaminated by rat
urine and faeces.
At necropsy, a small amount of fluid transudate was
observed in both thoracic (Figure 1) and abdominal cavities (hydrothorax and ascites), but the main lesions
were primarily limited to the cardiovascular system.
Hydropericardium was associated with pericardic
hemorrhages, mild cardiomegaly, grey-white necrotic
foci of the myocardium and petechiae or ecchymoses on
the epicardial surface (Figure 2). Lungs were involved in
most cases showing mild to severe pulmonary emphysema, moderate oedema and congestion with bloodtinged foam in the trachea. In some cases, the enteric
tract had a reinforced parietal and mesenteric vascular
plot. In one animal, brain lesions (hyperemia and
oedema) and meningeal congestion were also observed.

Figure 1 Thoracic cavity of a Callithrix jacchus that died during
the first outbreak. Sero-hemorragic transudate

Canelli et al. Virology Journal 2010, 7:64
http://www.virologyj.com/content/7/1/64

Page 4 of 7

Figure 2 Heart of a Lemur catta that died during the first outbreak. Some typical white foci of necrosis in the myocardium

During necropsy, some parasites were found in the stomach of a Eulemur albifrons and in the intestine of a
Macaca sylvanus. The identification of adults and eggs
was based on the morphology and micrometric study,
showing the presence of Trichuris spp. and Strongiloides
spp. respectively.
Bacteriological and toxicological investigations were
negative.
After 48-72 h post-inoculation of homogenates of different organs, VERO and BHK21 cell cultures showed a cytopathic effect (CPE) (Figure 3) and the virus was identified
as EMCV by using the MAbs-based sandwich ELISA.
Virus isolation was obtained from all sampled organs.
Furthermore the IEM examination was used to confirm this diagnosis (Figure 4). Although EMCV isolation
was obtained from lungs, spleen, brain and heart,

histological lesions were generally confined to the cardiovascular system (Figure 5a). The myocardium had
hydropic degeneration with focal areas of necrosis and
different degrees of lymphocytes and neutrofilic granulocytes interstitial infiltrations. Diffuse linfangectasia and
peri-vasal hemorrhages associated with mixed necrotizing vasculitis, multifocal inflammatory infiltrations and
necrotizing phenomena were also evident. Multifocal
areas of colliquative miocardic necrosis were found,
associated with prevalent granulocytic infiltration. These
lesions were often situated at the basis of papillary muscles and at the inter-ventricular sect level. An oedema
was evident in the peripheral areas of the lesions, while
compensative hypertrophy was present in the atrium.
The histological examination of the small and large
intestines, kidneys, liver and spleen did not show any

Figure 3 Vero cells culture. a) Negative control: uninfected cell monolayer. (20× magnification). b) Evident cytopathic effect due to EMCV, 72
hours after the infection. (20× magnification).

Canelli et al. Virology Journal 2010, 7:64
http://www.virologyj.com/content/7/1/64

Page 5 of 7

Figure 4 Electromicrograph. EMCV particles using IEM. (NaPT 2%. Bar = 100 nm).

Figure 5 Histological examination of myocardium. a) Severe myocarditis characterized by an interstitial infiltration of lymphocytes and
neutrophilic granulocytes. (Hematoxylin-eosin, 40× magnification) b) EMCV - immunopositive myocardiocytes using immunohistochemistry.
(100× magnification).

specific lesions. These findings partially agree with the
results of an experimental infection with EMCV in several primates (Cynomogolus macaques) reported by La
Rue et al., 2003 [8]. This work revealed the presence of
EMCV RNA using rt-PCR in the blood, spleen, liver,
heart, kidney, brain and skeletal muscles after the
EMCV inoculation in four Cynomogolus macaques. This
viral RNA localization was associated with several
pathological changes only in the heart and the brain.
The encephalic analysis of primates which died during
the two outbreaks, showed a clear congestion with moderate meningeal perivascular hemorrhages, clear neuronal satellitosis with neuronal degenerative changes and
areas of neuronal necrosis only in one case. The

immunohistochemistry was performed on the brain and
on the myocardium. No immunopositive signal was
apparent in the brain, while EMCV immunopositive
myocardiocytes were observed in all cases and the intensity and distribution of the immuno-labelling, agreed
with the severity of the histological lesions (Figure 5b).
These results could be explained considering that Encephalomyocarditis virus is principally cardiotropic in non
human primates [8]. Probably the histological lesions
observed in the SNC were not directly linked to EMCV
local replication but they could be due to anoxia with
brain damage, consequent to heart attack or arhytmia.
Indeed, when EMCV replicates in the SNC of pig and
non human primates, the lesions are generally

Canelli et al. Virology Journal 2010, 7:64
http://www.virologyj.com/content/7/1/64

represented by foci of perivascular cuffing and lymphocytic infiltration in the cerebral cortex, meninges and
cerebrum [8]. The main clinical, pathological and diagnostic findings are reported in Table 1.
The ELISA test on the collected sera was negative. As
described before the Zoological Park hosts many different species. A large number of them are sensible to the
EMCV infection [1-5,9-13]. In agreement with the
Direction of the Park, it was decided to avoid a random
collection of blood samples in captive wild animals in
order to prevent useless stress in the animals. Therefore,
it was not possible to show if other species were
infected or not. Nevertheless, no clinical signs or sudden
deaths were observed in other species than primates.
The sampled rats were all negative to laboratory investigation and in particular to viral isolation. Nevertheless
similar outcomes were described in literature by other
authors [4] and a successful isolation, even if at low
rate, was demonstrated after an experimental infection
by examining lymphoid tissues [14].

Conclusions
This report describes two outbreaks of ECMV which
occurred in zoo captive primates in Italy, confirming the
risk that this virus has present to such species and their
high susceptibility to the infection. Furthermore, EMCV
could be a potential issue for other zoological park animals as it may involve several other species. EMCV
infections may often be clinically non-evident and only
in certain cases they show extreme virulence, lethality
and severity [1,4,5,9]. Thus, EMCV should always be
included in differential diagnosis when sudden death of
primates without obvious symptoms occurs, in particular when there is myocarditis at necropsy.
The time period of the two cases confirmed the seasonality of the infection, typically reported during cold
months [10].
Rats are considered the source of the virus since they
can excrete it for long periods in feces and urine, contaminating food and water. Furthermore, their carcasses
can be infectious through ingestion [10]. The first outbreak was associated with a rodent plague and, even if no
captured rats were positive to the virus isolation, an
important epidemiological connection between rats and
this outbreak could be pointed out. The outbreak started
when the number of rats increased in the zoo and was
completely solved only when a rodent control program,
feeding hygienic practices and rigid bio-security measures
were applied in the zoo. This agrees with the various studies in which mice and rats were associated with clinical
outbreaks of EMCV, not only in wild animals
[1,3-5,9-13,15-17], but often also in pigs herds [18-20].
No information is available on the possibility of introducing EMCV by another species residing in the zoo.

Page 6 of 7

However, neither other rodents were observed during
the two outbreaks nor new animals were introduced in
the zoo in connection with the EMCV clinical onset.
The reoccurrence of a second outbreak after some
months is indeed difficult to explain. In addition to the
role of rats as carriers, the possibility of reactivation of
EMCV in persistently infected animals should not be
completely excluded [21].
All tested lemur sera were negative. Unfortunately, to
avoid dangerous stress to the animals, it is not currently
possible to collect further samples to verify the serological status of the surviving animals or to check their
potential status of persistently infected. Further investigation will be necessary to assess whether, as previously
suggested [4], immunity is not protective against later
exposure to this virus. In any case, due to the environmental resistance of the virus, the recrudescence of the
infection may be an important proof of this hypothesis.
Bearing in mind that human cases are few and rare,
but also considering the assumption of a zoonotic nature of ECMV, these finding are nevertheless of public
concern.
Acknowledgements
Many thanks to all technicians of the IZSLER virology section for their
precious work.
Author details
1
Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale della Lombardia e dell’Emilia Romagna
“B Ubertini” (IZSLER), Via Bianchi, 7/9 - 25124 Brescia, Italy. 2Natura Viva Zoo,
Loc Figara, 40 - 37012 Bussolengo, Verona, Italy. 3Department of Animal
Science, Udine University, Via delle Scienze, 208 - 33100 Udine, Italy.
Authors’ contributions
EC performed virological and serological analysis, set the results’
interpretation and drafted the manuscript. ALu conducted epidemiological
investigation, performed some necropsies and was a major contributor in
writing the manuscript and interpreting the data. ALa performed the
immuno-electron microscopy exams and helped in the writing and in the
critical revision of the manuscript and ensured the overall supervision. DL,
ES, AMMM were involved in the execution of virological analysis and in the
interpretation of the analytical data. DG and EP carried out the
histopathology and immuno-istochemistry exams and their interpretation. EP
also performed necropsies and made the interpretation of clinical and
anatomo-pathological outcomes. CS, WM collected the patient samples,
performed all the clinical exams and the majority of the necropsies, gave all
the data about the zoo animals involved and participated in the
epidemiological investigations. PC conceived the study, made the
interpretation of data and all the analysis were carried out under his
supervision and coordination. All authors read and approved the final
manuscript.
Competing interests
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Received: 27 November 2009 Accepted: 18 March 2010
Published: 18 March 2010
References
1. Gaskin JM, Jorge MA, Simpson CF, Lewis AL, Olson JH, Schobert EE,
Wollenman EP, Marlowe C, Curtis MM: The tragedy of
encephalomyocarditis virus infection in zoological parks of Florida.
Proceedings American Association of Zoo Veterinarians 1980, 1-7.

Canelli et al. Virology Journal 2010, 7:64
http://www.virologyj.com/content/7/1/64

2.

3.

4.
5.
6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.
12.
13.
14.

15.

16.
17.
18.

19.

20.

21.

Gaskin JM, Andresen TL, Olsen JH, Schobert EE, Buesse D, Lynch JD,
Walsh M, Citino S, Murphy D: Encephalomyocarditis in zoo animals:
Recent experiences with the disease and vaccination. Proceedings of the
1st International Conference on Zoological and Avian Medicine 1987, 491.
McLelland D, Kirkpatrick JF, Rose K, Dixon R: Studies on
encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) in a zoologic context. AAZV, AAWV,
ARAV, NAZWV Joint Conference 2001, 337.
Reddacliff L, Kirkland PD, Hartley WJ, Reece RL: Encephalomyocarditis virus
infections in an Australian zoo. J Zoo Wild Med 1997, 28(2):153-157.
Wells SK, Gutter AE, Soike KF, Baskin GB: Encephalomyocarditis virus:
Epizootic in a zoological collection. J Zoo Wildl Med 1989, 20:291.
Oberste MS, Gotuzzo E, Blair P, Nix WA, Ksiazek TG, Comer JA, Rollin P,
Goldsmith CS, Olson J, Kochel TJ: Human Febrile Illness Caused by
Encephalomyocarditis Virus Infection. Peru Emerg Infect Dis 2009,
15(4):640-646.
Brocchi E, Carra E, De Simone F: Development of monoclonal antibodies
based ELISAs for the detection of Encephalomyocarditis viruses (EMCV)
and of EMCV-induced antibodies. Proceedings of the S.I.Di.L.V.,13 nov 1998,
Salsomaggiore (PR) 1998, 31.
La Rue R, Myers S, Brewer L, Shaw DP, Brown C, Seal BS, Njenga MK: A
wild-type Porcine Encephalomyocarditis virus containing a short poly(C)
tract is pathogenic to mice, pigs and Cynomolgus macaques. Journal of
Virology 2003, 77:9136-9146.
Citino SB, Gaskin HJH, Wickham DJ: Fatal Encephalomyocarditis virus
infection in Sumatran orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus abelii). J Zoo Wildl
Med 1998, 19:214-218.
Murname TG: Encephalomyocarditis. CRC Handbook Series in Zoonoses,
Section B: Viral Zoonoses The Iowa State University Press Ames, IowaSteele
JH 1981, 137-147.
Billinis C: Encephalomyocarditis virus infection in wildlife species in
Greece. J Wildl Dis 2009, 45(2):522-6.
Gutter AE: Encephalomyocarditis in zoo animals. Zoo and Wild Animal
Medicine W.B. Saunders Co, PhiladelphiaFowler ME , 2 1993, 50-51.
Hubbard GB, Soike KF, Butler TM: An Encephalomyocarditis virus epizootic
in a baboon colony. Lab Anim Sci 1992, 42:233-239.
Spyrou V, Maurice H, Billinis C, Papanastassopoulou M, Psalla D, Nielen M,
Koenen F, Papadopoulos O: Transmission and pathogenicity of
encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) among rats. Vet Res 2004,
35(1):113-122.
Grobler DG, Raath JP, Braack LEO, Keet DF, Gerdes GH, Barnard BJH,
Krick NPJ, Jardine J, Swanepoet R: An outbreak of Encephalomyocarditisvirus infection in free ranging African elephants in the Kruger National
Park. Onderstepoort J Vet Res 1995, 62:97-108.
Seaman JT, Finnie EP: Acute myocarditis in a captive African elephant
(Loxodonta africana). J Wild Dis 1987, 23:170-171.
Simpson CF, Lewis AL, Gaskin JM: Encephalomyocarditis virus infection of
captive elephants. J Am Vet Med Assoc 1977, 171:902-905.
An DJ, Jeong W, Jeoung HY, Yoon SH, Kim HJ, Choi CU, Park B:
Encephalomyocarditis in Korea: serological survey in pigs and
phylogenetic analysis of two historical isolates. Vet Microbiol 2009,
28:37-4.
Bakkali Kassimi L, Madec F, Guy M, Boutrouille A, Rose N, Cruciere C:
Serological survey of Encephalomyocarditis virus infection in pigs in
France. Vet Rec 2006, 14,159(16):511-4.
Maurice H, Nielen M, Brocchi E, Nowotny N, Kassimi LB, Billinis C,
Loukaides P, O’Hara RS, Koenen F: The occurrence of
encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) in European pigs from 1990 to 2001.
Epidemiol Infect 2005, 133:547-5.
Billinis C, Paschaleri-Papadopoulou E, Psychas V, Vlemmas J, Leontides S,
Koumbati M, Kyriakis CS, Papadopoulos O: Persistence of
encephalomyocarditis virus infection in. Vet Microbiol 1999, 70:171-177.

doi:10.1186/1743-422X-7-64
Cite this article as: Canelli et al.: Encephalomyocarditis virus infection in
an Italian zoo. Virology Journal 2010 7:64.

Page 7 of 7

Submit your next manuscript to BioMed Central
and take full advantage of:
• Convenient online submission
• Thorough peer review
• No space constraints or color figure charges
• Immediate publication on acceptance
• Inclusion in PubMed, CAS, Scopus and Google Scholar
• Research which is freely available for redistribution
Submit your manuscript at
www.biomedcentral.com/submit

